<languages/>

==Wiki==

Pokud hledáte odpovědi ve Wiki, brzy zjistíte, že její vyhledávací funkce není příliš sofistikovaná. Lepších výsledků dosáhnete pomocí internetového vyhledávače. Stačí přidat {{Value|site:wiki.freecad.org}} k vašemu dotazu, aby se vyhledávání omezilo na FreeCAD Wiki.

==FAQ==

Některé z vašich dotazů již mohou být zodpovězeny na stránce [[Frequently_asked_questions|FAQ]].

<span id="Forum"></span>
==Fórum==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Dalším místem, kde můžete najít pomoc, je [https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=3 FreeCAD forum]. Než položíte jakoukoli otázku, přečtěte si prosím [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=2264 tento příspěvek. Pamatujte, že při žádosti o pomoc je nutné uvést [[Important information|důležité informace]] o vašem systému.
</div>

There are different subforums for FreeCAD users and developers. Make sure you search the internet, and read through existing questions before you ask for help. There are subforums where you can discuss more specific topics, give your impressions of FreeCAD, discuss new ideas, etc. The forums are very active and you should get a reply very quickly.

==Internet Relay Chat (IRC)==

There is an [https://web.libera.chat/#freecad IRC #freecad chat room on Libera Chat].

==Reddit==

If you are on Reddit you may use the [https://www.reddit.com/r/FreeCAD/ r/FreeCAD], or the [https://www.reddit.com/r/flossCAD/ r/flossCAD] using the FreeCAD flair. The r/flossCAD subreddit also has [https://s.reddit.com/channel/300896_dfacaa912e069e3d3f7e55e5cedfb25483d8d68a a chatroom] where might be able to ask questions. There are also [https://www.reddit.com/r/ElmerFEM/ r/ElmerFEM], [https://www.reddit.com/r/openscad/ r/openscad], [https://www.reddit.com/r/LibreCAD/ r/LibreCAD/] [https://www.reddit.com/r/OpenFOAM/ r/OpenFOAM], and [https://www.reddit.com/r/Modelica/ r/Modelica] subreddits.

==Telegram==

If you are on Telegram you may use the [https://t.me/FreeCAD_EN t.me/FreeCAD_EN].

==Twitter and Mastodon==

You may also follow the [https://twitter.com/FreeCADNews official Twitter account for FreeCAD] and/or [https://twitter.com/fsfarimani/lists/freecad the developers]. There is also [https://fosstodon.org/@FreeCAD FreeCAD's official Mastodon account] which you may follow. 

==Facebook==

You may join the [https://www.facebook.com/groups/416491481766626 FreeCAD's Facebook public group]

==Discord==

We have an [https://discord.gg/w2cTKGzccC official dedicated FreeCAD Discord server] with a variety of channels for various sub-topics. There are also several third-party servers with FreeCAD-related discussion channels. The [https://discordapp.com/invite/NeZEBZn Elmer FEM] server has a channel for seemingly every CAD, CAM, and CAE tool out there, whether open source or proprietary, and it has a fairly well-established "freecad" channel. The wide variety of channels and communities this server attracts means it can be good for having discussions with people in related communities. The [https://discordapp.com/invite/P9p9eHn OpenFOAM] server has a "freecad-salome-etc" channel, where you might be able to find people more interested in the overlap between FreeCAD and computational fluid dynamics tools like OpenFOAM. The [https://discordapp.com/invite/bp2yeYU Modelica Language] server also has a "freecad" channel if you are interested in FreeCAD from a multi-domain modeling perspective. However, please do not use chat groups as the main medium of exchanging data. They are not indexed by the search engines and information produced on these platforms is not properly accumulated, as it is on forums, blog posts, or wiki pages.


{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Help{{#translation:}}]]
{{clear}}