<languages/>

{{Docnav
|[[Getting_started|Getting started]]
|[[Selection_methods|Selection methods]]
}}

{{TOCright}}

==Overview==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
"Model myši" ve FreeCADu obsahuje příkazy používané k vizuální navigaci ve 3D prostoru a interakci se zobrazenými objekty. FreeCAD podporuje vícenásobný model navigačních stylů myši. Defaultní navigační styl je označován jako "CAD navigace" a je velmi jednoduchý a praktický, ale FreeCAD také poskytuje alternativní navigační styly, které si můžete vubrat podle Vašich požadavků.
</div>

For more information about selecting objects see [[Selection_methods|Selection methods]].

For more information about manipulating objects see [[Std_TransformManip|Std TransformManip]].

== Selecting a navigation style ==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
* V sekci Display (Zobrazení) [[Preferences Editor/cs|Editoru Předvoleb]], záložka ''3D Pohled'';
* Kliknutím pravého tlačítka myši v prázdném prostoru v oblasti 3D pohledu a potom výběrem "Navigačního stylu" v kontextuálním menu.
</div>

== Available navigation styles ==

With all navigation styles, unless selecting objects from a sketch in edit mode, you must hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} to select multiple objects.

The following keyboard options are available for all styles:

* {{KEY|Ctrl}} + {{ASCII|43}} and {{KEY|Ctrl}} + {{ASCII|22}} or {{KEY|PgUp}} and {{KEY|PgDn}} to zoom in and out, respectively.
* The arrow keys, {{ASCII|17}}{{ASCII|16}}{{ASCII|30}}{{ASCII|31}}, to pan the view left/right and up/down.
* {{KEY|Shift}} + {{ASCII|17}} and {{KEY|Shift}} + {{ASCII|16}} to rotate the view by 90 degrees.

<span id="Blender_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Blender Navigation ===
</div>

The Blender navigation style was modeled after [https://www.blender.org Blender].

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
V Blender Navigaci, vytvářené podle [http://www.blender.org Blenderu], není snímání (kamerou) pouze myší. Při snímání pohledu kamerou musíte držet klávesu {{KEY|SHIFT}}.
{{Blender Navigation/cs}}
{{Blender Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer.
}}

=== CAD navigation ===

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== CAD Navigace (default) ===
Je to defaultní navigační styl, který umožňuje uživateli jednoduchou kontrolu nad pohledem a nepožaduje používání klávesnice, kromě vícenásobného výběru.
{{CAD Navigation/cs}}
{{CAD Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view<br>First method
|Rotate_view_alt_name=Rotate view<br>Alternate method
|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

Holding down {{KEY|Ctrl}} allows the selection of multiple objects.
|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Pan_mode_text=Pan mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer. {{Version|0.17}}
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Clicking the middle mouse button re-centers the view on the location of the cursor.
|Zoom_mode_text=Zoom mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}} keys, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer. {{Version|0.17}}
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

The cursor location when the middle mouse button is pressed determines the center of rotation. Rotation works like spinning a ball which rotates around its center. If the buttons are released before you stop the mouse motion, the view continues [[spinning]], if this is enabled.

A double click with the middle mouse button sets a new center of rotation.
|Rotate_view_mode_text=Rotate mode: hold the {{KEY|Shift}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer. {{Version|0.17}}
|Rotate_view_alt_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

With this method the middle mouse button may be released after the right mouse button is held pressed.

Users who use the mouse with their right hand may find this method easier than the first method.
}}
</div>

{{CAD Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view<br>First method
|Rotate_view_alt_name=Rotate view<br>Alternate method
|Pan_name=Pan

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Clicking the middle mouse button re-centers the view on the location of the cursor.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

If the buttons are released before you stop the mouse motion, the view continues spinning, if this is enabled.

|Rotate_view_alt_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

With this method the middle mouse button may be released after the right mouse button is held pressed.

Users who use the mouse with their right hand may find this method easier than the first method.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Zoom_mode_text=Zoom mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}} keys, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_mode_text=Rotate mode: hold the {{KEY|Shift}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer.

|Pan_mode_text=Pan mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer.
}}

<span id="Gesture_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Gesture Navigation (v0.16) ===
</div>

This style was tailored for use with a touchscreen and pen. Nevertheless, it can also be used with a mouse, and is recommended for use when using a Mac with a trackpad.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
This navigation style was tailored for usability with touchscreen and pen, but is very usable with mouse too.
{{Gesture Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Tilt_view_name=Tilt view
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Select_gesture_text=Tap to select.
|Pan_text=Hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Pan_gesture_text=Drag with two fingers.

Alternatively, tap and hold, then drag. This simulates the pan with the right mouse button.
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
|Zoom_gesture_text=Drag two fingers (pinch) closer or farther apart.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
In [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]] and other edit modes, this behavior is disabled. Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when pressing the mouse button to enter rotation mode.

To set the camera's focus point for rotation, click a point with the middle mouse button. Alternatively, aim the cursor at a point and press {{KEY|H}} on the keyboard.
|Rotate_view_gesture_text=Drag with one finger to rotate.

Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when in the [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]].
|Tilt_view_text=Hold both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer sideways. 
|Tilt_view_gesture_text=Rotate the imaginary line formed by two touch points.

On v0.18 this method is disabled by default. To enable, go to {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences → Display}}, and untick "Disable touchscreen tilt gesture" checkbox.
}}
</div>

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
In [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]] and other edit modes, this behavior is disabled. Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when pressing the mouse button to enter rotation mode.

To set the camera's focus point for rotation, click a point with the middle mouse button. Alternatively, aim the cursor at a point and press {{KEY|H}} on the keyboard.

|Pan_text=Hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Tilt_view_text=Hold both left and right mouse buttons, then move the pointer sideways.

|Select_gesture_text=Tap to select.

|Zoom_gesture_text=Drag two fingers (pinch) closer or farther apart.

|Rotate_view_gesture_text=Drag with one finger to rotate.

Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when in the [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]].

|Pan_gesture_text=Drag with two fingers.

Alternatively, tap and hold, then drag. This simulates the pan with the right mouse button.

|Tilt_view_gesture_text=Rotate the imaginary line formed by two touch points.

This method is disabled by default. To enable, go to {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences → Display → Navigation}}, and uncheck the "Disable touchscreen tilt gesture" checkbox.
}}

<span id="Maya-Gesture_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Maya-Gesture Navigation ===
</div>

In Maya-Gesture Navigation, panning, zooming, and rotating the view require the {{KEY|Alt}} key together with a mouse button; therefore, a three-button mouse is required. It's also possible to use gestures as this style was developed over the [[#Gesture_navigation|Gesture navigation]] style.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
In Maya-Gesture Navigation, all view movements are activated pressing {{KEY|ALT}} and a mouse button, so that it will be needed to have a 3 button mouse in order to correctly use this navigation mode. Alternately it's possible to use gestures as this mode was been developed over the normal Gesture Navigation mode.
{{MayaGesture Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Tilt_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer sideways.
}}

=== OpenCascade navigation ===

The OpenCascade navigation style was modeled after [https://www.opencascade.com/ OpenCascade].

{{OpenCascade Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer. It is possible to hold {{KEY|Ctrl}}.
}}

=== OpenInventor navigation ===

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Inventor Navigation (Tvůrčí navigace) ===
Tvůrčí navigace, vytvářená podle [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Inventor Open Inventor] (nezaměňovat s Autodesk Inventor), kde se nepoužívá pouze výběr myší. Při vybírání objektů musíte držet stisknutou klávesu {{KEY|CTRL}}.
{{Inventor Navigation/cs}}
{{OpenInventor Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Select_text=Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}}, then press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer. 
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

This style is not based on Autodesk Inventor.

{{OpenInventor Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}}, then press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} instead to select multiple objects.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

=== OpenSCAD navigation ===

The OpenSCAD navigation style was modeled after [https://openscad.org/ OpenSCAD].

{{OpenSCAD_Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

{{VersionMinus|0.21}} Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}} when pressing the mouse button to drag an object in a sketch in edit mode.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Or hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, and when a sketch is in edit mode, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

=== Revit navigation ===

The Revit navigation style was modeled after [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autodesk_Revit Revit].

{{Revit Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold both left and right mouse buttons, then move the pointer.
}}

=== SolidWorks navigation ===

{{Version|1.1}}

The SolidWorks navigation style was modeled after [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SolidWorks SolidWorks].

{{SolidWorks_Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Clicking the middle mouse button re-centers the view on the location of the cursor.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

=== TinkerCAD navigation ===

The TinkerCAD navigation style was modeled after [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tinkercad TinkerCAD].

{{TinkerCAD Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Press the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

<span id="Touchpad_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Touchpad Navigation ===
</div>

With the Touchpad navigation style, panning, zooming, and rotating the view require a modifier key together with the touchpad. This style can also be used with a mouse.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
V Touchpad Navigaci, bez snímání, zoomování, a otáčení pohledu, jsou pouze operace s myší (nebo touchpadem).
{{Touchpad Navigation/cs}}
{{Touchpad Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}
|PageUp={{KEY|PageUp}}
|PageDown={{KEY|PageDown}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}}, then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Use {{KEY|PageUp}} and {{KEY|PageDown}} to zoom in and out.
|Zoom_alt_text=Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and {{KEY|Ctrl}}, then move the pointer.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}}, then move the pointer.
|Rotate_view_alt_text=Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the left button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}}, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}}, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the left button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}}, then move the pointer.
}}

<span id="Hardware_support"></span>
== Podpora hardwaru ==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
FreeCAD také podporuje některé [[3D input devices/cs|3D vstupní zařízení]].
</div>

<span id="Recommended_navigation_for_macOS"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Mac OS X problémy ==
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Nedávno jsme dostali oznámení [http://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=3592&start=0 na fóru] od uživatelů Mac, že uvedená tlačítka myši a kombinace kláves nefungují podle očekávání. Bohužel žádný z vývojářů nevlastní Mac a ani žádný zpravidelných spolupracovníků. Potřebujeme Vaši pomoc ke zjištění která tlačítka myši a klávesové kombinace mají uvedené problémy abychom mohli aktualizovat tuto stránku wiki.
</div>


{{docnav/cs|[[Getting started/cs|Zacínáme]]|[[Document structure/cs|Struktura dokumentu]]}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}