<languages/>

==Introduction==

{{TOCright}}

This page is meant to introduce Conda as a package, dependency, and environment manager for FreeCAD.

Currently this page mainly catalogs links to relevant FreeCAD forum discussion and other places on the web, but the hope is to document the salient points from those links into this page.

See also a [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCs8xlrw2nM video tutorial] of the contents of this page

==Motivation==

The motivation for using Conda is multi-fold, as is Conda's purpose.

Let's break it down.

===Conda as a Package Manager===

First, Conda is a package manager -- similar to <code>apt</code> or <code>pip</code>.

This means we can install '''packages''' with a a simple <code>conda install</code> from various [https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/concepts/channels.html#what-is-a-conda-channel channels] such as [https://conda-forge.org/ conda-forge].

Conda Forge is analogous to [https://pypi.org/ the Python Package Index (PyPI)], a community channel made up of thousands of contributors, and serves [https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/freecad freecad] as a conda package.

===Conda as a Dependency Manager===

Next, Conda is a dependency manager, also similar to <code>apt</code> or <code>pip</code>.

Conda can manage the dependencies and install the dependencies for a project like FreeCAD.

Why not just use <code>pip</code>? <code>pip</code> works really well for managing the dependencies of projects that ''only'' use python.

Conda works for multiple languages, and is therefore better suited for managing the dependencies of projects like FreeCAD that have dependencies across a variety of languages like C / C++ and Python.

===Conda as a Environment Manager===

Conda has the concept of an [https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/concepts/environments.html environment] which is the unique combination of packages and versions needed to run a piece of software. For example, a FreeCAD workbench.

With environments, you can easily "activate" and "deactivate" them, or switch between versions of packages needed for particular pieces of software.

This is useful for testing how a workbench behaves with a particular set of packages. For example, how does a workbench behave in FreeCAD 18.4 vs 19?

Conda environments allow you to reproduce the same exact environment on different machines.

For example, multiple local developer machines, or a remote build-server hosted by Travis CI.

==Installing Conda==

1. [https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html Install Miniconda].

2. Verify your installation was successful and familiarize yourself with the <code>conda</code> '''CLI'''.
<code>
$ conda --help
</code>
==Installing FreeCAD Using Conda==

First, you need to decide whether you want to install a '''stable''' version of FreeCAD, or experiment with the latest '''unstable''' code from FreeCAD <code>main</code>.

Stable released versions of FreeCAD are served on the <code>conda-forge</code> channel, while the latest from FreeCAD <code>main</code> is served on the <code>freecad/label/dev</code> channel.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Conda Channel !! Stable?
|-
| <code>conda-forge</code> || Yes ✔️
|-
| <code>freecad/label/dev</code> || No ❌
|}

Secondly, since you can easily create dedicated environments in conda, it's recommended to create one for FreeCAD.

The <code>create</code> command allows you to create an environment from a list of specified packages. In our case, we want to create an environment called "fcenv" (short for FreeCAD environment) from the <code>freecad</code> package, and tell conda to search for the <code>freecad</code> package using the <code>conda-forge</code> channel.
{{Code|code=
conda create --name fcenv --channel conda-forge freecad
}}
'''Tip:''' You can alternatively tell <code>conda</code> to always search <code>conda-forge</code> when installing packages with the following command:
{{Code|code=
conda config --add channels conda-forge
}}
The weekly builds can be installed from the <code>freecad/label/dev</code> channel like so:
{{Code|code=
conda create --name fcenv-dev --channel freecad/label/dev freecad
}}

==FreeCAD Forum Discussion==

* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?t=39656 Let's talk about Conda]
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=15197 Packaging solution: (ana)conda]
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=45582 FreeCAD Conda Distribution]

==See Also==

* https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/
* https://conda-forge.org/docs/
* https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/
* https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/freecad
* https://anaconda.org/freecad/freecad
* https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD_Conda
* https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-AppImage

[[Category:Developer_Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Developer{{#translation:}}]]