<languages/>

{{Docnav
|[[Std_DockOverlayToggleTransparent|DockOverlayToggleTransparent]]
|[[Std_DockOverlayToggleLeft|DockOverlayToggleLeft]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=
|IconR=Std_DockOverlayToggleLeft.svg
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

{{GuiCommand
|Name=Std DockOverlayMouseTransparent
|MenuLocation=View → Dock panel overlay → Bypass mouse events in docked overlay windows
|Workbenches=All
|Shortcut={{KEY|T}} {{KEY|T}}
|Version=1.0
|SeeAlso=[[Std_DockOverlayAll]]
}}

==Description==

The '''Std DockOverlayMouseTransparent''' command toggles a global "click-through" mode for all panels currently in the [[Std_DockOverlayAll|overlay system]].

When this mode is activated, '''all overlay panels become completely non-interactive to mouse input'''. All mouse actions —clicks, drags, scrolls, etc.— will pass directly through the panels to the [[3D_view|3D view]] or whichever widget is underneath them. The panels effectively become a visual-only layer.

The mouse cursor will also change to indicate that this special mode is active.

This mode is designed for situations where a user needs to keep panels visible for reference but wants to perform a series of uninterrupted mouse operations in the 3D view without the risk of accidentally hovering over a panel and making it opaque.

To exit this mode and make the overlay panels interactive again, the command must be invoked again or the {{KEY|Esc}} key must be pressed.

==Usage==

# The [[Std_DockOverlayAll|overlay mode]] must be active.
# There are several ways to invoke the command:
#* Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Dock panel overlay → Bypass mouse events in docked overlay windows}} option from the menu.
#* Use the keyboard shortcut: {{KEY|T}} then {{KEY|T}}.
# To disable the mode, use the same command again or press {{KEY|Esc}}.

==Preferences==

This command is a manual toggle that provides a more forceful "click-through" behavior than the automatic settings available in the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]]. It differs by making the entire panel non-interactive, not just the transparent parts, and it remains active until toggled off.

The related automatic settings can be found at {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences... → Display → UI → Overlay}}:
* '''Auto mouse pass through''': Automatically passes clicks through the transparent areas of an overlay panel.
* '''Auto mouse wheel pass through''': Automatically passes mouse wheel events through the transparent areas of an overlay panel.


{{Docnav
|[[Std_DockOverlayToggleTransparent|DockOverlayToggleTransparent]]
|[[Std_DockOverlayToggleLeft|DockOverlayToggleLeft]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=
|IconR=Std_DockOverlayToggleLeft.svg
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

{{Std_Base_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}