<languages/>

{{Docnav
|[[Std_Workbench|Workbench]]
|[[Std_DockOverlayTransparentAll|DockOverlayTransparentAll]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=
|IconR=
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

{{GuiCommand
|Name=Std DockOverlayAll
|MenuLocation=View → Dock panel overlay → Toggle overlay for all
|Workbenches=All
|Shortcut={{KEY|F4}}
|Version=1.0
|SeeAlso=[[Std_DockOverlayTransparentAll|Std DockOverlayTransparentAll]], [[Std_DockOverlayToggle|Std DockOverlayToggle]]
}}

==Description==

The '''Std DockOverlayAll''' command toggles the overlay mode on or off for all docked panels simultaneously.

[[Interface#Dock_panel_overlay|Overlay mode]] provides a way to maximize the space available for [[3D_view|3D views]] by transforming docked panels (like the [[Combo view|Combo View]] and [[Report view|Report View]]) into transparent floating widgets. When activated, these panels float on top of the main window, allowing the 3D view to expand into the space they previously occupied. The panels become fully opaque and usable when the mouse cursor hovers over them, and transparent again when the cursor moves away. This allows for interacting with the 3D model "through" the transparent panel.

==Usage==

# There are several ways to invoke the command:
#* Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Dock panel overlay → Toggle overlay for all}} option from the menu.
#* Use the keyboard shortcut: {{KEY|F4}}.

==Preferences==

The appearance of the overlay panels is controlled by stylesheets. This can be configured in two ways:

* '''Automatic Detection''': The system will automatically select an overlay theme based on the user's application theme. If your main theme (set in {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences... → Display → UI → Style sheet (advanced)}}) is detected as "light", a light-style overlay is used. Otherwise, a dark-style overlay is used. This works for most users without any configuration.
* '''Manual Override''':
** A built-in style sheet can be selected via {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences... → Display → UI → Overlay style sheet}}.
** For advanced control, the stylesheet can be specified using the [[Std_DlgParameter|Parameter Editor]].
**# Select the {{MenuCommand|Tools → Edit parameters...}} option from the menu.
**# Navigate to the following subgroup: {{MenuCommand|BaseApp → Preferences → MainWindow}}.
**# Find the string parameter named {{Incode|OverlayActiveStyleSheet}} or create it if required.
**# Change its value to the name of a different built-in stylesheet (e.g., {{Incode|Light Theme + Light Background.qss}}) or to the full path of a custom {{Incode|.qss}} file.



{{Docnav
|[[Std_Workbench|Workbench]]
|[[Std_DockOverlayTransparentAll|DockOverlayTransparentAll]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=
|IconR=
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

{{Std_Base_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}