<languages/>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Docnav
|[[Tracker|Tracker]]
|[[Testing|Testing]]
}}
</div>

{{TOCright}}

<span id="Test_First"></span>
== 测试先行 ==

在你经历痛苦的调试过程之前请使用  [[Testing|测试框架]] 来检查标准测试是否正常工作。如果它们未完全运行, 则可能这是不完整的安装。

<span id="Command_Line"></span>
== 命令行 ==

FreeCAD 的 "调试" 是由一些内部机制支持的。FreeCAD 的命令行版本提供了一些用于支持调试的选项。

以下是 FreeCAD 0.19 中能识别的选项:

一般性选项:

  -v [ --version ]      打印版本字符串
  -h [ --help ]         打印帮助信息 
  -c [ --console ]      以控制台模式启动 
  --response-file arg   也能使用 '@name' 指定 
  --dump-config         转储配置 
  -get-config arg       根据关键字打印特定的配置

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
配置:
  -l [ --write-log ]       输出 log 文件到:
                           $HOME/.FreeCAD/FreeCAD.log(Linux)
                           $HOME/Library/Preferences/FreeCAD/FreeCAD.log (macOS)
                           %APPDATA%\FreeCAD\FreeCAD.log (Windows)

  --log-file arg           不像 --write-log，这个命令允许记录log到任意文件
  -u [ --user-cfg ] arg    用于加载/保存用户设置的用户配置文件
  -s [ --system-cfg ] arg  用于加载/保存系统设置的用户配置文件
  -t [ --run-test ] arg    测试用例
  -M [ --module-path ] arg 额外的模块路径
  -P [ --python-path ] arg 额外的python脚本路径
  --single-instance        允许以单例模式运行
</div>

<span id="Generating_a_Backtrace"></span>
== 生成回溯 ==

如果你运行 FreeCAD  开发中的出血边缘(bleeding edge)版本, 则可能会发生 "崩溃 "。 您可以通过向开发人员提供 "回溯 " 来帮助解决此类问题。 为此, 您需要运行软件的  "调试版本 "。 "调试生成 " 是在编译时设置的参数, 因此您需要自己编译 FreeCAD, 或者获取预编译的"调试 " 版本。  

<span id="For_Linux"></span>
=== 对于 Linux ===

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Linux Debugging →
</div> 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Prerequisites:
</div> 

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
* 安装的 gdb 软件包
* FreeCAD 的调试版本 (此时仅可通过 [[Compile_on_Linux#For_a_Debug_build|从源代码构建]])
* 导致崩溃的 FreeCAD 模式
</div>

步骤:
在终端窗口中输入以下内容:

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Find FreeCAD binary on your system:
</div>

{{Code|code=
$ whereis freecad
freecad: /usr/local/freecad <--- for example

$ cd /usr/local/freecad/bin
$ gdb FreeCAD
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
GNUdebugger will output some initializing information. The (gdb) shows GNUDebugger is running in the terminal, now input:
</div>

{{Code|code=
(gdb) handle SIG33 noprint nostop
(gdb) run
}}

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
FreeCAD 现在就要启动。执行导致 FreeCAD 崩溃或冻结的步骤, 然后在终端窗口中输入:
<pre>
(gdb) bt
</pre>
这将生成一个冗长的列表, 确切地列出程序在崩溃或冻结时正在执行的工作。将此内容包括在问题报告中。
</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->
</div>

{{Code|code=
(gdb) bt
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This will generate a lengthy listing of exactly what the program was doing when it crashed or froze. Include this with your problem report.
</div>

{{Code|code=
(gdb) bt full
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Print the values of the local variables also. This can be combined with a number to limit the number of frames shown.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<span id="For_macOS"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== 对于 MacOSX ===
<!-- START OF COLLAPISBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">
MacOSX 调试 ---->
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
必要条件:
</div>

<!-- START OF COLLAPISBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
macOS Debugging →
</div> 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Prerequisites:
</div> 

* 安装好的软件包 lldb
* FreeCAD 的调试版本
* 一个导致崩溃的 FreeCAD 模式

步骤:
在终端窗口中输入以下内容:

{{Code|code=
$ cd FreeCAD/bin
$ lldb FreeCAD
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
LLDB will output some initializing information. The (lldb) shows the debugger is running in the terminal, now input:
</div>

{{Code|code=
(lldb) run
}}

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
FreeCAD 现在就要启动。执行导致 FreeCAD 崩溃或冻结的步骤, 然后在终端窗口中输入:
<pre>
(lldb) bt
</pre>
这将生成一个冗长的列表, 确切地列出程序在崩溃或冻结时正在执行的工作。将此内容包括在问题报告中。
</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->
</div>

{{Code|code=
(lldb) bt
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This will generate a lengthy listing of exactly what the program was doing when it crashed or froze. Include this with your problem report.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== List Libraries Loaded by FreeCAD ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
(Applicable to Linux and macOS)
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Sometimes it's helpful to understand what libraries FreeCAD is loading, specifically if there are multiple libraries being loaded of the same name but different versions (version collision). In order to see which libraries are loaded by FreeCAD when it crashes you should open a terminal and run it in the debugger. In a second terminal window, find out the process id of FreeCAD:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{incode|ps -A &#124; grep FreeCAD}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Use the returned id and pass it to {{incode|lsof}}:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{incode| lsof -p process_id}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This prints a long list of loaded resources. So for example, if trying to ascertain if more than one Coin3d library versions is loaded, scroll through the list or search directly for Coin in the output:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{incode|lsof -p process_id &#124; grep Coin}}
</div>

<span id="Python_Debugging"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Python 调试 ==
这里是一个在 FreeCAD 中使用 winpdb 的例子:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For a more modern approach to debugging Python, see these posts:
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=22&t=28901 Debugging macros with VS 2017]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=35383 Python workbenches debugging]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=40251 python3.dll, Qt5Windgets.dll, Qt5Gui.dll and Qt5Core.dll not found]
</div>

=== winpdb ===

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

winpdb 调试 → 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

这里是一个在FreeCAD内使用“Winpdb”的例子

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
We need the Python debugger: ''Winpdb''. If you do not have it installed, on Ubuntu/Debian install it with:
</div>

{{Code|code=
sudo apt-get install winpdb
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Now lets setup the debugger.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
# Start ''Winpdb''.
# Set the debugger password to "test": Go to menu ''File'' → ''Password" and set the password.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Now we will run a test Python script in FreeCAD step by step.
</div>

# 运行 winpdb 并且设置密码 (例如：测试)
# 使用以下内容创建一个 Python 文件

{{Code|code=
import rpdb2
rpdb2.start_embedded_debugger("test")
import FreeCAD
import Part
import Draft
print "hello"
print "hello"
import Draft
points=[FreeCAD.Vector(-3.0,-1.0,0.0),FreeCAD.Vector(-2.0,0.0,0.0)]
Draft.makeWire(points,closed=False,face=False,support=None)
}}

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
# 开始 FreeCAD 并将上述文件加载到 FreeCAD
# 按 F6 执行
# 现在 FreeCAD 将变得没有响应, 因为 Python 调试器正在等待
# 切换到 Windpdb GUI, 然后单击  "附加 "。几秒钟后, 将出现一个项目  "<Input> ", 您必须双击
# 现在, 当前执行的脚本出现在 Winpdb 中。
# 在最后一行设置断点并按 F5
# 现在按 F7 键跟踪 Python 代码 Draft.makeWire
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Visual Studio Code (VS Code) ===
</div>

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
VS Code Debugging →
</div> 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Prerequisites:
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The ptvsd package needs to be installed in a Python 3 outside of FreeCAD, then the module must be copied to FreeCAD's Python library folder.
</div>

{{Code|code=
# In a cmd window that has a path to you local Python 3:
pip install ptvsd
# Then if your Python is installed in C:\Users\<userid>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python37
# and your FreeCAD is installed in C:\freecad\bin
xcopy "C:\Users\<userid>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python37\Lib\site-packages\ptvsd" "C:\freecad\bin\Lib\site-packages\ptvsd"
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
[https://pypi.org/project/ptvsd/ pypi page]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
[https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_remote-debugging Visual Studio Code documentation for remote debugging]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Steps:
* Add following code at the beginning of your script
</div>

{{Code|code=
import ptvsd
print("Waiting for debugger attach")
# 5678 is the default attach port in the VS Code debug configurations
ptvsd.enable_attach(address=('localhost', 5678), redirect_output=True)
ptvsd.wait_for_attach()
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Add a debug configuration in Visual Studio Code {{MenuCommand|Debug → Add Configurations…}}. 
* The config should look like this:
</div>

<!--NOT CHANGE THE <pre> </pre> BALISE CAUSE THE PIPE OR SPACE IN MACRO CODE CUT THE MACRO-->
<pre>
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Python: Attacher",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "attach",
            "port": 5678,
            "host": "localhost",
            "pathMappings": [
                {
                    "localRoot": "${workspaceFolder}",
                    "remoteRoot": "."
                }
            ]
        },
</pre>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* In VS Code add a breakpoint anywhere you want.
* Launch the script in FreeCAD. FreeCAD freeze waiting for attachment.
* In VS Code start debugging using created configuration. You should see variables in debugger area.
* When setting breakpoints, VS Code will complain about not finding the .py file opened in the VS Code editor.
** Change "remoteRoot": "." to "remoteRoot": "<directory of file>"
*** For example, if the Python file resides in ''/home/FC_myscripts/myscript.py''
*** Change to: "remoteRoot": "/home/FC_myscripts"
** If you're just debugging FreeCAD macros from the FreeCAD macro folder, and that folder is "C:/Users/<userid>/AppData/Roaming/FreeCAD/Macro", then use:
*** "localRoot": "C:/Users/<userid>/AppData/Roaming/FreeCAD/Macro",
*** "remoteRoot": "C:/Users/<userid>/AppData/Roaming/FreeCAD/Macro"
* If your macro can't find ptvsd despite having installed it somewhere precede 'import ptvsd' with
</div>

{{Code|code=
from sys import path
sys.path.append('/path/to/site-packages')
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Where the path is to the directory where ptvsd was installed.
* On the left bottom edge of VSCode you can choose the Python executable - it's best to make this the version packaged with FreeCAD.
In the Mac package it is /Applications/FreeCAD.App/Contents/Resources/bin/python.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
You can locate it on your system by typing
</div>

{{Code|code=
import sys
print(sys.executable)
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
into FreeCAD's Python console.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== With LiClipse and AppImage ===
</div>

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
LiClipse Debugging →
</div> 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Extract AppImage.
</div>

{{Code|code=
> ./your location/FreeCAD_xxx.AppImage --appimage-extract
> cd squashfs-root/
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The sqashfs-root location is where the debugger later on is hooked up to.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Make sure you can start a FreeCAD session from within the squashfs-root location.
</div>

{{Code|code=
squashfs-root> ./usr/bin/freecadcmd
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Should start up a FreeCAD commandline session.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Install [https://www.liclipse.com/ LiClipse].
** Comes ready with pydev and has installers for all platforms.
** For linux it is just to extract (to any location) and run.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Configure liclipse for debugging.
** Right-click pydev icon (upper right corner) and choose customize.
*** Activate "PyDev Debug" (through checkbox, or it might be needed to go to tab "Action Set Availability" and activate there first).
*** In the pydev menu you can now choose "start debug server".
** Use menu window/open perspective/other > debug.
*** Right-click debug icon (upper right corner) and choose customize.
*** Checking "Debug" brings the debugging navigation tools to the toolbar.
** Open preferences through menu window/preferences.
*** In PyDev/Interpreters add "new Interpreter by browsing".
*** The added interpreter should be: {{incode|your loc/squashfs-root/usr/bin/python}}.
*** If you are only using this for fc, you can add AddOn workbench folders as well, or do that in a pydev-project later on.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Find path to {{incode|pydevd.py}} in your liclipse installation.
** Something along the lines of: {{incode|your location/liclipse/plugins/org.python.pydev.xx/pysrc}}.
* Create a regular pydev-project in liclipse.
** Import external sources, for example a macro that you want to debug, or an external workbench.
** In that macro (or workbench .py file) add the code lines:
</div>

: {{Code|code=
import sys; sys.path.append("path ending with /pysrc")
import pydevd; pydevd.settrace()
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
:* This is where the execution will halt when the macro is run.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Start the liclipse debug server (menu pydev).
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Start FreeCAD.
</div>

{{Code|code=
squashfs-root> ./usr/bin/freecad
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Run the macro (or any other file with a {{incode|pydevd.settrace()}} trigger) from within freecad, as you would normally do.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Happy debugging.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The use of LiClipse for remote debugging, and the steps described here related to liclipse, should work on any platform.  The parts related to AppImage is for linux only.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Pyzo ===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
See the [[Pyzo|main article about Pyzo]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Debugging OpenCasCade ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For developers needing to dig deeper in to the OpenCasCade kernel, user @abdullah has created a [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=47017 thread] orientation discussing how to do so.
</div>


<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{Docnav|Module Creation/zh-cn|Testing/zh-cn}}
</div>

{{Powerdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Python Code{{#translation:}}]]
{{clear}}