<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

<span id="Introduction"></span>
==Einleitung==

Siehe auch: [https://freecad.github.io/SourceDoc/dd/dc2/namespaceApp.html Autogenerated API documentation (C++ documentation)].

Eigenschaften (engl. properties) sind die wahren Bausteine von FeaturePython-Objekten. Über sie kann der Benutzer mit dem Objekt interagieren und es ändern. Nachdem ein neues FeaturePython-Objekt im Dokument erstellt wurde:

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "Box")
}}

Eine Liste der verfügbaren Eigenschaften kann abgerufen werden, indem der folgende Befehl eingegeben wird:

{{Code|code=
obj.supportedProperties()
}}

<span id="Creating_a_FeaturePython_object_and_adding_a_property_to_it"></span>
== <span id="Creating"> Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen ==

Dieser Code erstellt ein Objekt mit dem internen Namen {{incode|InternalObjectName}} (automatisch umbenannt in {{incode|InternalObjectName001}} und so weiter, wenn bereits ein Objekt mit dem Namen {{incode|InternalObjectName}} existiert) und gibt ihm die benutzerfreundliche Bezeichnung {{incode|User-friendly label}}. Diese Bezeichnung wird in der [[Tree_View/de|Baumansicht]] angezeigt. [[Expressions/de|Ausdrücke]] können auf dieses Objekt über seine Bezeichnung {{incode|<<User-friendly label>>}}  verweisen.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
}}

Um diesem Objekt eine Eigenschaft hinzuzufügen, wird die lange Form von {{incode|addProperty}} verwendet, wie unten gezeigt. FreeCAD trennt (die Zeichenfolge) {{incode|ThePropertyName}} automatisch auf und stellt sie mit Leerzeichen ({{incode|The Property Name}}) im [[Property_editor#Ansicht- und Daten-Eigenschaften|Reiter Daten des Eigenschafteneditors]] dar.

{{Code|code=
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyBool", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
}}

{{incode|App::PropertyBool}} ist die Art der Eigenschaft. Die unterschiedlichen Arten werden unten detaillierter beschrieben.

Es kann auch die kurze Form verwendet werden, die die letzten beiden Argumente weglässt. Standardmäßig wird der Teilabschnitt (subsection) {{incode|Base}} verwendet und eine QuickInfo wird mit dieser Form nicht dargestellt.

{{Code|code=
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyBool", "ThePropertyName")
}}

Um die Eigenschaft aufzurufen (get) oder zu setzen (set) wird {{incode|obj.ThePropertyName}} verwendet:

{{Code|code=
# set
obj.ThePropertyName = True
# get
thePropertyValue = obj.ThePropertyName
}}

Ist die Art der Eigenschaft [[#App::PropertyEnumeration|App::PropertyEnumeration]], besitzt die Set-Methode ein besonderes Verhalten: Das Setzen einer liste von Zeichenketten bestimmt die Auswahlmöglichkeiten der Aufzählung (enumeration); Das Setzen einer Zeichenkette wählt eine dieser Möglichkeiten aus. Um die Liste der Wahlmöglichkeiten zu erstellen und die aktuelle festzulegen, verwendet man:

{{Code|code=
# allowed cases
obj.ThePropertyName = ["aaa", "bbb", "ccc"]
# set
obj.ThePropertyName = "bbb"
}}

{{Version/de|1.0}}: Das {{Incode|enum_vals}} Argument der {{Incode|addProperty}}-Funktion kann auch zur Definition der Aufzählungsfälle verwendet werden.

{{Version/de|1.0}}: Die vollständige Signatur der Funktion ist:

{{Code|code=
obj.addProperty(type: string, name: string, group="", doc="", attr=0, read_only=False, hidden=False, enum_vals=[])
}}

* {{Incode|type}}: Typ der Eigenschaft.
* {{Incode|name}}: Name der Eigenschaft.
* {{Incode|group}}: Unterabschnitt der Eigenschaft.
* {{Incode|doc}}: Tooltipp.
* {{Incode|attr}}: Attribute, siehe [[Scripted_objects/de#Property_attributes|Skriptgesteuerte Objekte]].
* {{Incode|read_only}}: Siehe oben.
* {{Incode|hidden}}: Siehe oben.
* {{Incode|enum_vals}}: Aufzählungswerte (Liste von Zeichenfolgen), nur relevant, wenn der Typ [[#App::PropertyEnumeration|App::PropertyEnumeration]] ist.

== App::PropertyAcceleration ==

A {{TODO}}acceleration property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyAcceleration", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyAmountOfSubstance ==

== App::PropertyAngle ==

Eine Winkeleigenschaft. Sie kann einen Winkelwert  {{incode|angle}} enthalten. Mit ".Value" wird der Wert als Fließkommazahl ausgegeben. Weitere Details finden sich im Abschnitt [[#Ein FeaturePython-Objekt erstellen und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen|Ein FeaturePython-Objekt erstellen und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyAngle", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = 180
obj.ThePropertyName # returns 180.0 deg
obj.ThePropertyName.Value # returns 180.0
}}

== App::PropertyArea ==

A {{TODO}}area property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyArea", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyBool ==

Eine boolesche Eigenschaft. Sie kann {{incode|True}} (wahr) und {{incode|False}} (falsch) enthalten. Weitere Details finden sich im Abschnitt [[#Ein FeaturePython-Objekt erstellen und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen|Ein FeaturePython-Objekt erstellen und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyBool", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = True
obj.ThePropertyName = False
obj.ThePropertyName # returns False
}}

== App::PropertyBoolList ==

Eine Eigenschaft, die eine Liste von Booleschen Werten enthält. Sie kann eine Python-Liste von Booleschen Werten enthalten, z. B. {{incode|[True, False, True]}}. Weitere Informationen findet man im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyBoolList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [True, False, True]
obj.ThePropertyName    # returns [True, False, True]
obj.ThePropertyName[1] # returns False
}}

== App::PropertyColor ==

Eine Farbeigenschaft. Sie kann Tupel mit vier Fließkommawerten {{incode|float}} enthalten. Jedes Element kann werte zwischen 0.0 und 1.0 enthalten. Es können Werte für Rot, Grün und Blau gesetzt werden. Zusätzlich kann ein Wert für Transparenz gesetzt werden.  Weitere Details finden sich im Abschnitt [[#Ein FeaturePython-Objekt erstellen und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen|Ein FeaturePython-Objekt erstellen und diesem eine Eigenschaft hinzufügen]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyColor", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = (0.0, 1.0, 0.5, 0.8) # (Red, Green, Blue, Transparency)
obj.ThePropertyName # returns (0.0, 1.0, 0.5, 0.8)
}}

== App::PropertyColorList ==

A {{TODO}}colorList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyColorList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyCurrentDensity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyDensity ==

== App::PropertyDirection ==

Identisch mit [[#App::PropertyVectorDistance|App::PropertyVectorDistance]].

== App::PropertyDissipationRate ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyDistance ==

Eine distance-Eigenschaft. Sie kann einen positiven, negativen oder Null-{{incode|distance}}-Wert enthalten. Das Element „Value” der Eigenschaft verwenden, um den Wert als Fließkommazahl zu erhalten. Der Wert ist immer in mm angegeben, wird jedoch in der [[Property_View/de|Eigenschaften-Ansicht]] entsprechend den Einstellungen mit Einheiten dargestellt. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

[[#App::PropertyLength|App::PropertyLength]] ist eine ähnliche Eigenschaft, die keinen negativen Wert enthalten kann.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyDistance", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = 500
obj.ThePropertyName # returns "500.0 mm"
obj.ThePropertyName.Value # returns 500.0
}}

== App::PropertyDynamicViscosity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricalCapacitance ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricalConductance ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricalConductivity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricalInductance ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricalResistance ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricCharge ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricCurrent ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyElectricPotential ==

== App::PropertyEnumeration ==

Eine enumeration-Eigenschaft. Die zulässigen Elemente werden durch Festlegen der Eigenschaft auf eine Liste definiert. Danach kann sie Elemente der angegebenen Liste enthalten. Die Liste der zulässigen Elemente kann geändert werden, indem die Eigenschaft erneut auf eine Liste festgelegt wird. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyEnumeration", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = ["Foo", "Bar", "Baz"]  # set allowed items
obj.ThePropertyName = "Foo"                  # choose single item
obj.ThePropertyName = ["Foo", "Bar", "Quux"] # change allowed items
obj.ThePropertyName = "Quux"                 # choose single item
obj.ThePropertyName # returns "Quux"
}}

{{Version/de|1.0}}: Das Argument {{Incode|enum_vals}} der Funktion {{Incode|addProperty}} kann auch zur Definition der Aufzählungsfälle verwendet werden. Siehe [[#Creating_a_FeaturePython_object_and_adding_a_property_to_it|oben]].

{{Version/de|0.20}}: Es ist möglich, Aufzählungen zu gruppieren, die in der GUI über eine Untermenü-Oberfläche angezeigt werden. Zum Gruppieren wird das Zeichen {{incode|<nowiki>|</nowiki>}} (vertikale Pipe) als Trennzeichen verwendet, z. B.:

{{Code|code=
obj.ThePropertyName = [
    "Group 1 <nowiki>|</nowiki> Item A", 
    "Group 1 <nowiki>|</nowiki> Item B", 
    "Group 2 <nowiki>|</nowiki> Another item", 
    "Group 2 <nowiki>|</nowiki> Last item"
] # set allowed items
obj.ThePropertyName = "Group 1 <nowiki>|</nowiki> Item A" # choose single item
}}

Die GUI zeigt dies als Menüstruktur an:
* Gruppe 1
** Element A
** Element B
* Gruppe 2
** Ein weiteres Element
** Letztes Element

== App::PropertyExpressionEngine ==

A {{TODO}}expressionEngine property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyExpressionEngine", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyFile ==

A filename property. It can contain a string indicating the path to a filename {{TODO}}:(Does it allow relative paths or absolute paths or both?). For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFile", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyFileIncluded ==

A filename property that also includes the file itself into the document. The file doesn't get loaded into memory, it gets copied from the document archive into the document transient directory. There it is accessible for reading. You can get the transient path through {{Incode|getDocTransientPath()}}. As input, the property accepts a string containing the path to the original file. The property returns the path to the temporary file in the transient directory. For more details, see this [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/blob/adfdbf7cd76fe78c7f818623e019454337ed1bcd/src/Mod/Arch/ArchBuildingPart.py#L595-L597 example from the Arch Workbench].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFileIncluded", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = "D:/file.txt"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns the path to the temporary file
}}

== App::PropertyFloat ==

Eine float-Eigenschaft. Sie kann einen {{incode|float}}-Wert enthalten. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFloat", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = 15.7
obj.ThePropertyName # returns 15.7
}}

== App::PropertyFloatConstraint ==

Eine float-Randbedingungs-Eigenschaft. Sie kann einen {{incode|float}}-Wert enthalten. Mit dieser Eigenschaft können Start- und Endwerte festgelegt werden. Außerdem kann auch das Schrittintervall festgelegt werden. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFloatConstraint", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = (50.0, 0.0, 100.0, 1.0) # (Default, Start, Finish, Step)
obj.ThePropertyName # returns 50.0
}}

== App::PropertyFloatList ==

Eine float-Listen-Eigenschaft. Sie kann eine Liste von {{incode|float}}-Werten enthalten. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFloatList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [12.7, 5.8, 28.6, 17.22] # It can also be an empty list.
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [12.7, 5.8, 28.6, 17.22]
}}

== App::PropertyFont ==

A {{TODO}}font property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFont", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyForce ==

A {{TODO}}force property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyForce", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyFrequency ==

A {{TODO}}frequency property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyFrequency", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyHeatFlux ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyInteger ==

Eine integer-Eigenschaft. Sie kann einen ganzzahligen Wert von -2147483646 bis einschließlich 2147483647 enthalten. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyInteger", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = 25
obj.ThePropertyName # returns 25
}}

== App::PropertyIntegerConstraint ==

Eine integer-Randbedingungs-Eigenschaft. Mit dieser Eigenschaft kann ein Standardwert, ein Mindestwert, ein Höchstwert und eine Schrittweite festgelegt werden. Alle Werte sollten ganze Zahlen sein und können im Bereich von -2147483646 bis einschließlich 2147483647 liegen. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyIntegerConstraint", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = (50, 0, 100, 1) # (Default, Minimum, Maximum, Step size)
obj.ThePropertyName # returns 50
}}

== App::PropertyIntegerList ==

Eine integer-Listen-Eigenschaft. Sie kann eine Liste von {{incode| integer}}-Werten enthalten. Weitere Informationen sind im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]] zu finden.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyIntegerList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [12, 5, 28, 17] # It can also be an empty list.
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [12, 5, 28, 17]
}}

== App::PropertyIntegerSet ==

A {{TODO}}integerSet property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyIntegerSet", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyInverseArea ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyInverseLength ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyInverseVolume ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyKinematicViscosity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyLength ==

A length  property. It can contain a positive or zero {{incode|length}} value. Use the "Value" member of the property to get the value as a float number. The value is always in mm, but in the [[Property_editor|Property editor]] is presented with units according to the preferences. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

[[#App::PropertyDistance|App::PropertyDistance]] ist eine ähnliche Eigenschaft, die auch einen negativen Wert enthalten kann.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLength", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = 500
obj.ThePropertyName # returns "500.0 mm"
obj.ThePropertyName.Value # returns 500.0
}}

== App::PropertyLink ==

A link property. It can contain link to an object. When you call this property, it will return the linked object. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
link_obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "LinkObjectName")
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLink", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = link_obj
obj.ThePropertyName # returns link_obj
}}

== App::PropertyLinkChild ==

A {{TODO}}linkChild property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkChild", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkGlobal ==

A {{TODO}}linkGlobal property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkGlobal", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkHidden ==

A {{TODO}}linkHidden property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkHidden", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkList ==

A link list property. It can contain list of linked objects. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
link_obj0 = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "LinkObjectName0")
link_obj1 = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "LinkObjectName1")
link_obj2 = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "LinkObjectName2")

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [link_obj0, link_obj1, link_obj2]
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [link_obj0, link_obj1, link_obj2]
}}

== App::PropertyLinkListChild ==

A {{TODO}}linkListChild property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkListChild", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkListGlobal ==

A {{TODO}}linkListGlobal property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkListGlobal", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkListHidden ==

A {{TODO}}linkListHidden property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkListHidden", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSub ==

A LinkSub is a list of two elements: the first is a reference to a [[App_DocumentObject|document object]], the second a string or a list of strings indicating the internal name(s) of subelement(s). For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
doc = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument
box = doc.addObject("Part::Box", "Box")

obj = doc.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSub", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [box, ["Vertex1", "Vertex2"]]

doc.recompute()
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubChild ==

A {{TODO}}linkSubChild property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubChild", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubGlobal ==

A {{TODO}}linkSubGlobal property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubGlobal", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubHidden ==

A {{TODO}}linkSubHidden property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubHidden", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubList ==

A LinkSubList is a list of tuples. Each tuple contains two elements: the first is a reference to a [[App_DocumentObject|document object]], the second a string or a list of strings indicating the internal name(s) of subelement(s). For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
doc = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument
box = doc.addObject("Part::Box", "Box")
cyl = doc.addObject("Part::Cylinder", "Cylinder")

obj = doc.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [(box, ["Vertex1", "Vertex2"]), (cyl, "Edge1")]

doc.recompute()
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubListChild ==

A {{TODO}}linkSubListChild property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubListChild", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubListGlobal ==

A {{TODO}}linkSubListGlobal property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubListGlobal", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLinkSubListHidden ==

A {{TODO}}linkSubListHidden property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyLinkSubListHidden", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyLuminousIntensity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyMagneticFieldStrength ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyMagneticFlux ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyMagneticFluxDensity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyMagnetization ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyMap ==

A {{TODO}}map property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyMap", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyMass ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyMaterial ==

Eine Materialeigenschaft. Sie kann ein FreeCAD-Materialobjekt enthalten. Weitere Details findet man im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]].

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD
material=FreeCAD.Material()

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyMaterial", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = material
obj.ThePropertyName # returns material
}}

== App::PropertyMaterialList ==

Eine Materiallisteigenschaft. Sie kann eine Liste von Materialien enthalten. Weitere Informationen finden Sie im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]].

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD
material0 = FreeCAD.Material()
material1 = FreeCAD.Material()
material2 = FreeCAD.Material()

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython","InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyMaterialList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [material0, material1, material2] # It can also be an empty list.
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [material0, material1, material2]
}}

== App::PropertyMatrix ==

A {{TODO}}matrix property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyMatrix", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPath ==

A path property. It can contain a string representing a path to a folder {{TODO}}:(does it also allow paths to files? does it allow relative or absolute paths or both?). For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPath", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPercent ==

A {{TODO}}percent property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPercent", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPersistentObject ==

A {{TODO}}persistentObject property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPersistentObject", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPlacement ==

A placement property. It can contain {{incode|placement}} object. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD
placement = FreeCAD.Placement()
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython","InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPlacement", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = placement
obj.ThePropertyName # returns placement
}}

== App::PropertyPlacementLink ==

A {{TODO}}placementLink property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPlacementLink", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPlacementList ==

A placement list property. It can contain list of {{incode|placements}}. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD
placement0 = FreeCAD.Placement()
placement1 = FreeCAD.Placement()
placement2 = FreeCAD.Placement()

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython","InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPlacementList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [placement0, placement1, placement2]
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [placement0, placement1, placement2]
}}

== App::PropertyPosition ==

Identical to [[#App::PropertyVectorDistance|App::PropertyVectorDistance]].

== App::PropertyPower ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyPrecision ==

A {{TODO}}precision property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPrecision", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPressure ==

A {{TODO}}pressure property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPressure", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyPythonObject ==

A {{TODO}}pythonObject property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyPythonObject", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyQuantity ==

A {{TODO}}quantity property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyQuantity", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyQuantityConstraint ==

A {{TODO}}quantityConstraint property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyQuantityConstraint", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyRotation ==

== App::PropertyShearModulus ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertySpecificEnergy ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertySpecificHeat ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertySpeed ==

A {{TODO}}speed property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertySpeed", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyStiffness ==

== App::PropertyStress ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyString ==

A {{TODO}}string property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyString", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyStringList ==

A {{TODO}}stringList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyStringList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyTemperature ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyThermalConductivity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyThermalExpansionCoefficient ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyThermalTransferCoefficient ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyTime ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyUltimateTensileStrength ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyUUID ==

A {{TODO}}uUID property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyUUID", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyVacuumPermittivity ==

A {{TODO}}vacuumPermittivity property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyVacuumPermittivity", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyVector ==

A vector property. It can contain a FreeCAD {{incode|vector}} object. The value can set by supplying a vector or a tuple. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD
vector = FreeCAD.Vector(0, -2, 5)

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyVector", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = vector
obj.ThePropertyName # returns Vector(0, -2, 5)
obj.ThePropertyName = (1, 2, 3)
obj.ThePropertyName # returns Vector(1, 2, 3)
obj.ThePropertyName.x # returns 1.0
obj.ThePropertyName.y # returns 2.0
obj.ThePropertyName.z # returns 3.0
obj.ThePropertyName.z = 6
obj.ThePropertyName # returns Vector(1, 2, 6)
obj.ThePropertyName.Length # returns 6.4031242374328485
obj.ThePropertyName.Length = 2 * obj.ThePropertyName.Length
obj.ThePropertyName # Vector (2.0, 4.0, 12.0)
}}

== App::PropertyVectorDistance ==

A vector property that is almost identical to [[#App::PropertyVector|App::PropertyVector]]. The only difference is that in the [[Property_editor|Property editor]] the "x", "y" and "z" members of this property are presented with units according to the preferences. But internally all values are unitless and therefore in mm.

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyVectorDistance", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = (1, 2, 3)
obj.ThePropertyName # returns Vector(1, 2, 3)
obj.ThePropertyName.x # returns 1
}}

== App::PropertyVectorList ==

A vector list property. It can contain list of {{incode|vectors}}. The value can set by supplying a list of vectors and/or tuples. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD
v0 = FreeCAD.Vector(0, 10, 0)
v1 = FreeCAD.Vector(0, 10, 0)
v2 = FreeCAD.Vector(30, -10, 0)
v3 = FreeCAD.Vector(0, -10, 0)

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython","InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyVectorList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = [v0, v1, v2, v3]
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [Vector(0, 10, 0), Vector(0, 10, 0), Vector(30, -10, 0), Vector(0, -10, 0)]
obj.ThePropertyName = [v0, (1, 2, 3), v2, (4, 5, 6)]
obj.ThePropertyName # returns [Vector (0, 10, 0), Vector (1, 2, 3), Vector (30, -10, 0), Vector (4, 5, 6)]
}}

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyVelocity ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyVolume ==

A {{TODO}}volume property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyVolume", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyVolumeFlowRate ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyVolumetricThermalExpansionCoefficient ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyWork ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyXLink ==

A {{TODO}}xLink property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyXLink", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyXLinkList ==

A {{TODO}}xLinkList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyXLinkList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyXLinkSub ==

A {{TODO}}xLinkSub property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyXLinkSub", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyXLinkSubList ==

A {{TODO}}xLinkSubList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("App::PropertyXLinkSubList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== App::PropertyYieldStrength ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== App::PropertyYoungsModulus ==

{{Version/de|0.21}}

== Mesh::PropertyCurvatureList ==

A {{TODO}}curvatureList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Mesh::PropertyCurvatureList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Mesh::PropertyMeshKernel ==

A mesh kernel property. It can contain a {{incode|mesh}} object. For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
import Mesh
mesh = Mesh.Mesh()

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Mesh::PropertyMeshKernel", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = mesh
obj.ThePropertyName # returns mesh
}}

== Mesh::PropertyNormalList ==

A {{TODO}}normalList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Mesh::PropertyNormalList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Part::PropertyFilletEdges ==

A {{TODO}}filletEdges property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Part::PropertyFilletEdges", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Part::PropertyGeometryList ==

A {{TODO}}geometryList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Part::PropertyGeometryList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Part::PropertyPartShape ==

Eine part shape-Eigenschaft. Sie kann ein {{incode|shape}}-Objekt enthalten. Weitere Informationen findet man im Abschnitt über [[#Creating|Erstellen eines FeaturePython-Objekts und Hinzufügen einer Eigenschaft dazu]].

{{Code|code=
import Part
part = Part.Shape()

obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Part::PropertyPartShape", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = part
obj.ThePropertyName # returns part
}}

== Part::PropertyShapeHistory ==

A {{TODO}}shapeHistory property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Part::PropertyShapeHistory", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Path::PropertyPath ==

A {{TODO}}path property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Path::PropertyPath", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Path::PropertyTool ==

A {{TODO}}tool property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Path::PropertyTool", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Path::PropertyTooltable ==

A {{TODO}}tooltable property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Path::PropertyTooltable", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Sketcher::PropertyConstraintList ==

A {{TODO}}constraintList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Sketcher::PropertyConstraintList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Spreadsheet::PropertyColumnWidths ==

A {{TODO}}columnWidths property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Spreadsheet::PropertyColumnWidths", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Spreadsheet::PropertyRowHeights ==

A {{TODO}}rowHeights property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Spreadsheet::PropertyRowHeights", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Spreadsheet::PropertySheet ==

A {{TODO}}sheet property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Spreadsheet::PropertySheet", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== Spreadsheet::PropertySpreadsheetQuantity ==

A {{TODO}}spreadsheetQuantity property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("Spreadsheet::PropertySpreadsheetQuantity", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== TechDraw::PropertyCenterLineList ==

A {{TODO}}centerLineList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("TechDraw::PropertyCenterLineList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== TechDraw::PropertyCosmeticEdgeList ==

A {{TODO}}cosmeticEdgeList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("TechDraw::PropertyCosmeticEdgeList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== TechDraw::PropertyCosmeticVertexList ==

A {{TODO}}cosmeticVertexList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("TechDraw::PropertyCosmeticVertexList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

== TechDraw::PropertyGeomFormatList ==

A {{TODO}}geomFormatList property. It can contain {{TODO}}"allowed type and/or values". For more details, see the section about [[#Creating|Creating a FeaturePython object and adding a property to it]].

{{Code|code=
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::FeaturePython", "InternalObjectName")
obj.Label = "User-friendly label"
obj.addProperty("TechDraw::PropertyGeomFormatList", "ThePropertyName", "Subsection", "Description for tooltip")
obj.ThePropertyName = {{TODO}}"example value for setter"
obj.ThePropertyName # returns {{TODO}}"example value for getter"
}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:API{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]