<languages/>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The FreeCAD logo has been [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=87074 selected by the FreeCAD community] during a contest of proposals made by community members. It has then been donated to the FPA to be managed on behalf of the whole FreeCAD community.
</div>

<span id="Trademark_and_licensing"></span>
==Warenzeichen und Lizenzierung==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The logo is a [https://fpa.freecad.org/documents/Trademark.pdf trademark owned by the FPA (FreeCAD project association)]. This means the [https://fpa.freecad.org FPA] is the sole body authorized to set its license, that is, to say who has the right to use the FreeCAD logo or not. The logo files, which are part of the FreeCAD source code or available elsewhere, for example on this wiki, are still all under the same licenses as the rest of FreeCAD (LGPL for the source code and Creative Commons for this wiki). You are still free to use the FreeCAD logo anywhere, on the same terms as the rest of FreeCAD, which means, basically, that you must use it to reference FreeCAD, and not use it, for example, for your own product, or any other way that is not referencing FreeCAD.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The bottom line is, you are welcome to use the FreeCAD logo anywhere, but you should only use it to refer to FreeCAD itself, not to, for example, your own business.
</div>

<span id="Guidelines"></span>
==Richtlinien==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The logo files in different formats are all hosted on the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/tree/main/images/logos FPA Git repository]. For your convenience, a [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/blob/main/images/logos/logo_kit.zip logo kit (zip file)] is also available for download, that contains all the needed files.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Together with the logo files, you will also find a convenient [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/blob/main/images/logos/guidelines/guidelines.pdf guide book] that explains how to use the logo.
</div>
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]