<languages/>

{{VeryImportantMessage|LuxCoreRender wird vom [[Raytracing_Workbench/de|Arbeitsbereich Raytracing]] nicht offiziell unterstützt, sondern vom neuen  [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render Arbeitsbereich Render], der als dessen Ersatz gedacht ist. Der Arbeitsbereich Render kann über den [[Std_AddonMgr/de|Addon-Manager]] installiert werden.}}

<span id="Description"></span>
==Beschreibung==

[https://luxcorerender.org LuxCoreRender] ist eine physikalisch basierte Rendering-Engine, ein Neustart des mittlerweile veralteten [[LuxRender/de|LuxRender]]. Es wird vom [[Raytracing_Workbench/de|Arbeitsbereich Raytracing]] nicht offiziell unterstützt, könnte aber funktionieren. 

=Installation=

<span id="Raytracing_Workbench"></span>
==Arbeitsbereich Raytracing==

{{VeryImportantMessage|Offiziell funktioniert der [[Raytracing_Workbench/de|Arbeitsbereich Raytracing]] nicht mit LuxCoreRender, sondern nur mit dem veralteten [[LuxRender/de|LuxRender]]. Außerdem wird der [[Raytracing_Workbench/de|Arbeitsbereich Raytracing]] durch den neuen [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render Arbeitsbereich Render] ersetzt, der als Nachfolger gedacht ist. Der Arbeitsbereich Render kann über den [[Std_AddonMgr/de|Addon-Manager]] installiert werden. Die Informationen hier werden bereitgestellt, da FreeCAD standardmäßig (Stand 0.19-24276) weiterhin mit dem Arbeitsbereich Raytracing ausgeliefert wird}}

<span id="Stable_Version"></span>
===Stabile Version===

LuxCoreRender wird aktiv weiterentwickelt. Die aktuellste stabile Version findet man auf GitHub unter [https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/latest].

====Linux====

'''''Kompilierte Binärdateien'''''

Wenn die Distribution es in den offiziellen Repositorys hat, kann man LuxCoreRender und alle zugehörigen Abhängigkeiten über den Paketmanager installieren.
Zu diesen Distributionen gehören: [https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/?O=0&SeB=nd&K=luxcorerender Arch Linux (AUR)], [https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/luxcorerender Fedora].

Andernfalls kann man die offiziellen Binärdateien der [https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/latest neuesten stabilen Version von GitHub] herunterladen. Die Datei hat einen Namen wie ''luxcorerender-{Versionsnummer}-linux64.tar.bz2''.
Die schnellere Lösung (wenn auch nicht die beste Vorgehensweise) besteht darin, den Inhalt des Archivs an einem geeigneten Ort, z. B. ''~/LuxCoreRender'', zu extrahieren. Man ändert bei Bedarf die Dateiberechtigungen, damit der Benutzer die soeben extrahierten Dateien ausführen kann. 

'''''Aus dem Quellcode kompilieren'''''

Wenn die Distribution LuxCoreRender nicht in den Repositorys enthält und die offiziellen Binärdateien auf dem Computer nicht funktionieren oder man dies wünscht, kann LuxCoreRender aus dem Quellcode kompiliert werden.
[https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/latest Die neueste stabile Version] enthält den Quellcode, der etwa wie folgt aussieht: ''luxcorerender-{Versionsnummer}.tar.bz2''. 

'''''FreeCAD konfigurieren'''''

Nach der Installation von LuxCoreRender startet man FreeCAD, öffnet den [[Preferences_Editor/de|Voreinstellungseditor]], laden Sie die [[Preferences_Editor/de#Unloaded_Workbenches|Arbeitsbereich Raytracing]] und man geht zu den [[Raytracing_Preferences/de|Raytracing-Einstellungen]].

Legt den Pfad zur ausführbaren Datei von Luxrender so fest, dass er auf die Installation von LuxCoreRender verweist, normalerweise ist dies ''/usr/bin/luxcoreui'' (oder, wenn man es manuell installiert hat, etwa ''~/LuxCoreRender/luxcoreui''), und übernimmt die Einstellung.

<span id="macOS"></span>
===macOS===

[https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/latest Auf GitHub auf die neueste stabile Version überprüfen], nach unten scrollen zum Abschnitt ''Assets'' (ihn bei Bedarf erweitern) und die macOS-Datei herunterladen. Sie wird etwa so lauten: ''luxcorerender-{Versionsnummer}-mac64.dmg''.

====Windows====

[https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/latest Check on GitHub for the latest stable release], scroll down to the ''Assets'' section (expand it if needed) and download the Windows file. It will be something like ''luxcorerender-{version number}-win64.zip''.

Then check in the note above the assets if there are any notes about dependencies for Windows user.
For example to [https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/tag/luxcorerender_v2.5 use LuxRender 2.5] you are required to install the [https://aka.ms/vs/15/release/vc_redist.x64.exe Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2017] and the [https://software.intel.com/sites/default/files/managed/59/aa/ww_icl_redist_msi_2018.3.210.zip Intel C++ redistributable].

After installing dependencies, extract the downloaded archive in a suitable folder, like ''C:\Tools\LuxCoreRender''.
Avoid using system folders like ''C:\Program Files'' or ''C:\Program Files (x86)''.

After installing LuxCoreRender, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Unloaded_Workbenches|load the Raytracing Workbench]], and go to the [[Raytracing_Preferences|Raytracing Preferences]].

Set the Luxrender executable path to point to your installation of LuxCoreRender, that will be something like ''C:/Tools/LuxCoreRender/luxcoreui.exe'', and apply.

<span id="Development_Version"></span>
===Entwicklungsversion===

LuxCoreRender is under active development, so to know which is the [https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases latest development version] you have to manually check on GitHub for the latest marked as Pre-release. 

====Linux====

'''''Kompilierte Binärdateien'''''

If your distribution has it in the official repositories, you can install LuxCoreRender development version and all the relative dependencies through the package manager.
Such distributions include: [https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/?O=0&SeB=nd&K=luxcorerender Arch Linux (AUR)].

Otherwise it is possible to download the official binaries of the [https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases latest development version, marked as Pre-release, from GitHub]. The file will be something like ''luxcorerender-{version number}-linux64.tar.bz2'' or ''luxcorerender-latest-linux64.tar.bz2''.
The faster solution (although not the best practice) is to extract the content of the archive in a suitable location, like ''~/LuxCoreRender''. If needed change the file permissions so that your user can execute the files you just extracted. 

'''''Aus dem Quellcode kompilieren'''''

If your distributions does not have LuxCoreRender development in the repositories and the official binaries do not work on your computer, or you wish to, it is possible to compile LuxCoreRender from source.
[https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases Check GitHub for the latest development version, marked as Pre-release] that includes the source, that will be something like 'luxcorerender-{version number}.tar.bz2'' 

'''''FreeCAD konfigurieren'''''

After installing LuxCoreRender, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Unloaded_Workbenches|load the Raytracing Workbench]], and go to the [[Raytracing_Preferences|Raytracing Preferences]].

Set the Luxrender executable path to point to your installation of LuxCoreRender, usually it is ''/usr/bin/luxcoreui'' (or if you installed it manually something like ''~/LuxCoreRender/luxcoreui''), and apply.

====macOS====

[https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases Check on GitHub for the latest development version], marked as Pre-release, scroll down to the ''Assets'' section (expand it if needed) and download the Windows file. It will be something like ''luxcorerender-{version number}-mac64.dmg'' or ''luxcorerender-latest-mac64.dmg''.

====Windows====

[https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases Check on GitHub for the latest development version], marked as Pre-release, scroll down to the ''Assets'' section (expand it if needed) and download the Windows file. It will be something like ''luxcorerender-{version number}-win64.zip'' or ''luxcorerender-latest-win64.zip''.

Then check in the note above the assets if there are any notes about dependencies for Windows user.
For example to [https://github.com/LuxCoreRender/LuxCore/releases/tag/luxcorerender_v2.5rc1 use LuxRender 2.5rc1] you are required to install the [https://aka.ms/vs/15/release/vc_redist.x64.exe Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2017] and the [https://software.intel.com/sites/default/files/managed/59/aa/ww_icl_redist_msi_2018.3.210.zip Intel C++ redistributable].

After installing dependencies, extract the downloaded archive in a suitable folder, like ''C:\Tools\LuxCoreRender''.
Avoid using system folders like ''C:\Program Files'' or ''C:\Program Files (x86)''.

After installing LuxCoreRender, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Unloaded_Workbenches|load the Raytracing Workbench]], and go to the [[Raytracing_Preferences|Raytracing Preferences]].

Set the Luxrender executable path to point to your installation of LuxCoreRender, that will be something like ''C:/Tools/LuxCoreRender/luxcoreui.exe'', and apply.

<span id="Render_Workbench"></span>
==Arbeitsbereich Render==

As of now there are no significant differences between the Raytracing Workbench and the Render Workbench in the part regarding the installation of the external software, so refer to the [[LuxCoreRender#Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench section]] to install LuxCoreRender and to this section for the Render Workbench configuration.

First of all install the Render Workbench through the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]] and restart FreeCAD.

====Linux====

After installing the Render Workbench and LuxCoreRender, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Unloaded_Workbenches|load the Render Workbench]], and go to the Render Preferences.

Set the LuxCore UI path to point to your installation of LuxCoreRender, usually it is ''/usr/bin/luxcoreui'' (or if you installed it manually something like ''~/LuxCoreRender/luxcoreui''), and apply.

====Windows====

After installing the Render Workbench and LuxCoreRender, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Unloaded_Workbenches|load the Render Workbench]], and go to the Render Preferences.

Den Pfad für den LuxCore-Befehl (cli) festlegen, beispielsweise ''C:/Tools/LuxCore/pyluxcoretool.exe'', und den Pfad für die LuxCore-Benutzeroberfläche, beispielsweise ''C:/Tools/LuxCore/luxcoreui.exe'', und die Einstellungen übernehmen.