<languages/>

{{Macro
|Name=Konvertieren 021
|Description=Konvertiert eine mit einer Version nach 0.21 gespeicherte FreeCAD-Datei zurück in das Format 0.21.
|Author=yorik
|Version=0.1
|Date=2024-03-13
|FCVersion=jede
}}

<span id="Description"></span>
==Beschreibung==

Dieses Makro öffnet einen Dateidialog, in dem eine FreeCAD-Datei auswählt werden kann, und konvertiert diese in das Format 0.21 (ersetzt die Eigenschaft AttachmentSupport durch Support). Es wird eine neue Datei mit der Erweiterung .021.FCStd erstellt, sodass die Originaldatei nicht verändert wird.

<span id="Usage"></span>
==Anwendung==

Das Makro ausführen und eine FCStd-Datei auswählen, wenn das Dialogfeld angezeigt wird.

<span id="Install"></span>
==Installieren==

Mittels des Addon-Managers.

==Code==

'''Macro_Convert_021.FCMacro'''

<!--NOT CHANGE THE <pre> </pre> BALISE CAUSE THE PIPE OR SPACE IN MACRO CODE CUT THE MACRO-->
<pre>
#!/usr/bin/env python3
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
# ***************************************************************************
# *                                                                         *
# *   Copyright (c) 2024 Yorik van Havre <yorik@uncreated.net>              *
# *                      Florian Foinant-Willig <ffw@2f2v.fr>               *
# *                                                                         *
# *   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify  *
# *   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL)            *
# *   as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of     *
# *   the License, or (at your option) any later version.                   *
# *   for detail see the LICENCE text file.                                 *
# *                                                                         *
# *   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,       *
# *   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of        *
# *   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the         *
# *   GNU General Public License for more details.                          *
# *                                                                         *
# *   You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public     *
# *   License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software   *
# *   Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  *
# *   USA                                                                   *
# *                                                                         *
# ***************************************************************************

"""This macro opens a file dialog to allow to choose a FreeCAD file
and converts it to 0.21 format (replace AttachmentSupport property to Support).
A new file with extension .021.FCStd is created so the original file is not modified"""
import os
import zipfile
from PySide import QtGui

filenames = QtGui.QFileDialog.getOpenFileNames(None,
                                             "Open FreeCAD file",
                                             None,
                                             "FreeCAD Files (*.FCStd *.fcstd)")
for filename in filenames[0]:
    print("Processing", filename, "...")
    spl = os.path.splitext(filename)
    filename021 = spl[0] + ".021" + spl[1]
    with zipfile.ZipFile(filename) as inzip, zipfile.ZipFile(filename021, "w") as outzip:
        for inzipinfo in inzip.infolist():
            with inzip.open(inzipinfo) as infile:
                if inzipinfo.filename == "Document.xml":
                    content = infile.read()
                    content = content.replace(b"AttachmentSupport", b"Support")
                    outzip.writestr(inzipinfo, content)
                else:
                    outzip.writestr(inzipinfo, infile.read())
    print(filename021, "successfully written")

print ("All done!")
</pre>