<languages/>
Hier werden detailliertere Informationen zur Anwendung der Befestigungsverfahren der Art '''Ausrichten O-X-Y''' unter [[Part_EditAttachment/de|Part Befestigen]].

Diese Verfahren sind:
* Ausrichten O-Z-X
* Ausrichten O-Z-Y
* Ausrichten O-X-Y
* Ausrichten O-X-Z
* Ausrichten O-Y-Z
* Ausrichten O-Y-X

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
These modes are used to attach to a specified vertex, with an orientation determined by reference to other vertices or edges.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Button|Reference1}} must be a vertex. The origin is mapped to this selected point.
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Note: If an edge is selected for {{Button|Reference1}}, O-X-Y type modes are not offered.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Button|Reference2}} and {{Button|Reference3}} must be either vertices or edges. They provide direction information. For a vertex, the direction is from the origin to the selected vertex. For an edge, it is the direction of the edge. {{Button|Reference3}} is optional.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Take mode O-X-Z as an example:
*The '''O''' represents the origin, corresponding to {{Button|Reference1}}.
*The '''X''' indicates that the X-axis of the attached object is to be aligned with the direction of {{Button|Reference2}}.
*The '''Z''' indicates that the Z-axis of the attached object is to be aligned with the component of the direction of {{Button|Reference3}} at right angles to the X-axis.
*The '''Y'''-axis completes the orthogonal right-hand axis triad.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For other modes, the axes are mapped in a corresponding fashion.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If {{Button|Reference3}} is not provided, FreeCAD makes default choices for it.
</div>


{{Part_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}