<languages/>

<span id="Introduction"></span>
==Вступление==

{{TOCright}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This page is meant to introduce Conda as a package, dependency, and environment manager for FreeCAD.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Currently this page mainly catalogs links to relevant FreeCAD forum discussion and other places on the web, but the hope is to document the salient points from those links into this page.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
See also a [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCs8xlrw2nM video tutorial] of the contents of this page
</div>

<span id="Motivation"></span>
==Аргументы в пользу Conda==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The motivation for using Conda is multi-fold, as is Conda's purpose.
</div>

Рассмотрим более подробно.

<span id="Conda_as_a_Package_Manager"></span>
===Conda как пакетный менеджер===

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
First, Conda is a package manager -- similar to <code>apt</code> or <code>pip</code>.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This means we can install '''packages''' with a a simple <code>conda install</code> from various [https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/concepts/channels.html#what-is-a-conda-channel channels] such as [https://conda-forge.org/ conda-forge].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Conda Forge is analogous to [https://pypi.org/ the Python Package Index (PyPI)], a community channel made up of thousands of contributors, and serves [https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/freecad freecad] as a conda package.
</div>

<span id="Conda_as_a_Dependency_Manager"></span>
===Conda как менеджер зависимостей===

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Next, Conda is a dependency manager, also similar to <code>apt</code> or <code>pip</code>.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Conda can manage the dependencies and install the dependencies for a project like FreeCAD.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Why not just use <code>pip</code>? <code>pip</code> works really well for managing the dependencies of projects that ''only'' use python.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Conda works for multiple languages, and is therefore better suited for managing the dependencies of projects like FreeCAD that have dependencies across a variety of languages like C / C++ and Python.
</div>

<span id="Conda_as_a_Environment_Manager"></span>
===Conda как менеджер среды окружения===

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Conda has the concept of an [https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/concepts/environments.html environment] which is the unique combination of packages and versions needed to run a piece of software. For example, a FreeCAD workbench.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
With environments, you can easily "activate" and "deactivate" them, or switch between versions of packages needed for particular pieces of software.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This is useful for testing how a workbench behaves with a particular set of packages. For example, how does a workbench behave in FreeCAD 18.4 vs 19?
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Conda environments allow you to reproduce the same exact environment on different machines.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For example, multiple local developer machines, or a remote build-server hosted by Travis CI.
</div>

<span id="Installing_Conda"></span>
==Установка Conda==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
1. [https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html Install Miniconda].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
2. Verify your installation was successful and familiarize yourself with the <code>conda</code> '''CLI'''.
</div>
<code>
$ conda --help
</code>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Installing FreeCAD Using Conda==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
First, you need to decide whether you want to install a '''stable''' version of FreeCAD, or experiment with the latest '''unstable''' code from FreeCAD <code>main</code>.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Stable released versions of FreeCAD are served on the <code>conda-forge</code> channel, while the latest from FreeCAD <code>main</code> is served on the <code>freecad/label/dev</code> channel.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Conda Channel !! Stable?
|-
| <code>conda-forge</code> || Yes ✔️
|-
| <code>freecad/label/dev</code> || No ❌
|}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Secondly, since you can easily create dedicated environments in conda, it's recommended to create one for FreeCAD.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The <code>create</code> command allows you to create an environment from a list of specified packages. In our case, we want to create an environment called "fcenv" (short for FreeCAD environment) from the <code>freecad</code> package, and tell conda to search for the <code>freecad</code> package using the <code>conda-forge</code> channel.
</div>
{{Code|code=
conda create --name fcenv --channel conda-forge freecad
}}
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
'''Tip:''' You can alternatively tell <code>conda</code> to always search <code>conda-forge</code> when installing packages with the following command:
</div>
{{Code|code=
conda config --add channels conda-forge
}}
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The weekly builds can be installed from the <code>freecad/label/dev</code> channel like so:
</div>
{{Code|code=
conda create --name fcenv-dev --channel freecad/label/dev freecad
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==FreeCAD Forum Discussion==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=39656 Let's talk about Conda]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=15197 Packaging solution: (ana)conda]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=45582 FreeCAD Conda Distribution]
</div>

<span id="See_Also"></span>
==Смотрите Также==

* https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/
* https://conda-forge.org/docs/
* https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/
* https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/freecad
* https://anaconda.org/freecad/freecad
* https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD_Conda
* https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-AppImage

[[Category:Developer_Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Developer{{#translation:}}]]