<languages/>

<span id="Description"></span>
== Описание ==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Help module is responsible for handling all requests for documentation, and displaying it in an appropriate manner. Up to FreeCAD version 0.21, the Help module is available as an [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon]], after that it is included in FreeCAD itself. There is no problem in leaving the Addon installed after version 0.21.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Help module provides a preferences page under menu {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences → General → Help}}, which allows to specify:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The source of the documentation: The documentation can be fetched from online locations such as the [https://wiki.freecad.org official FreeCAD wiki] (default) or the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-documentation Markdown conversion], or from an offline location, such as a folder where the documentation can be downloaded with the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon manager]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The way the documentation must be displayed: in your desktop browser, in a separate, dockable dialog, that allows you for ex. to keep the documentation displayed while you are working (this is useful for tutorials), or a new FreeCAD tab. Note that in version 1.0 the 2nd and 3rd option require PySide Web components. If these are missing the 1st option will be used instead.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* An alternative css file: This is used only when using the Markdown or offline sources above, and allows you to customize the styling of the documentation.
</div>

<span id="Scripting"></span>
== Написание скриптов ==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Help module basically consists of a [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/blob/main/src/Mod/Help/Help.py single Python module]. Its main usage is using the {{Incode|show}} function. It can retrieve an URL, a local file (Markdown or html), or find a page automatically from the settings set under {{MenuCommand|Preferences → General → Help}}.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
It doesn't matter what you provide, the system will recognize if the contents are HTML or Markdown and render it appropriately.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Basic usage:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Code|code=
import Help
Help.show("Draft Line")
Help.show("Draft_Line")  # works with spaces or underscores
Help.show("https://wiki.freecadweb.org/Draft_Line")
Help.show("https://gitlab.com/freecad/FreeCAD-documentation/-/raw/main/wiki/Draft_Line.md")
Help.show("/home/myUser/.FreeCAD/Documentation/Draft_Line.md")
Help.show("http://myserver.com/myfolder/Draft_Line.html")
}}
</div>


{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Addons{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:External Workbenches{{#translation:}}]]