<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

<span id="Introduction"></span>
== Введение ==

Начиная с v0.17 легко добавить [[external_workbenches/ru|внешний верстак]], используя [[Std_AddonMgr/ru|Addon Manager]]. Обычному пользователю ничего не требуется кроме использования этого инструмента.

Читайте далее для получения дополнительной информации относительно установки верстаков.

<span id="General_description"></span>
== Общее описание ==

Workbenches are nothing more than collections of files that are placed in a folder. This folder is usually compressed into a zip archive. On installation, this folder is simply uncompressed and copied to

{{Code|code=
$ROOT_DIR/Mod/
}}

where {{incode|$ROOT_DIR}} is a top level directory searched by FreeCAD on startup. This is essentially what the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]] does.

The {{incode|Mod/}} directories are scanned every time FreeCAD is started, and the available workbenches are automatically added.

== Installing system-wide ==

Workbenches installed in this way will be available to all users. Depending on your system, you might need administrator privileges to access the installation directory.

Copy the workbench folder into {{incode|$INSTALL_DIR/Mod/}}, where {{incode|$INSTALL_DIR}} is the FreeCAD installation directory.
* On Linux it is usually {{incode|/usr/share/freecad/Mod/}}
* On Windows it is usually {{incode|C:\Program Files\FreeCAD\Mod\}}
* On macOS it is usually {{incode|/Applications/FreeCAD/Mod/}}

== Installing for a single user ==

Workbenches installed in this way will be available only to one user, but will not require any administrator privileges.

Copy the workbench folder into {{incode|$USER_DIR/Mod/}}, where {{incode|$USER_DIR}} is the FreeCAD directory for a particular {{incode|username}} (you can find the latter by typing {{incode|App.getUserAppDataDir()}} in the [[Python_console|Python console]]).
* On Linux it is usually {{incode|/home/username/.local/share/FreeCAD/Mod/}}
* On Windows it is {{incode|%APPDATA%\FreeCAD\Mod\}}, which is usually {{incode|C:\Users\username\Appdata\Roaming\FreeCAD\Mod\}}
* On macOS it is usually {{incode|/Users/username/Library/Application Support/FreeCAD/Mod/}}.

<span id="Additional_information"></span>
== Дополнительная информация ==

Дополнительная информация о том, как создать пользовательский верстак, может быть найдена на [[Power users hub/ru|хабе опытных пользователей]] и [[Developer hub/ru|хабе разработчиков]].

Смотрите так же детальное описание [[How_to_install_additional_workbenches|как установить дополнительные верстаки]].


{{Powerdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]