<languages/>
{{UnfinishedDocu{{#translation:}}}}

{{Docnav/es
|[[Compile_on_MacOS/es|Compilar en MacOS]]
|[[FreeCAD_Docker_CLI_mode/es|FreeCAD Modo Docker CLI]]
}}

{{TOCright}}

<span id="Overview"></span>
==Resumen==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Entre las opciones para componer e instalar FreeCAD, existe la opción de utilizar Docker. Este método es principalmente útil para los desarrolladores de FreeCAD, utilizando ordenadores Linux o Mac OS.
</div>

<span id="Benefits"></span>
===Beneficios===

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
All of FreeCAD's dependencies are already installed, compatible with each other, and configured appropriately, allowing you to get started developing very quickly. 
* The dependencies are contained within the docker container, preventing any unwanted packages contaminating your workstation, and preventing any clashing versions.
* The source code and build directories are outside the docker container. This allows you to use your preferred editors, versioning systems, dev tools etc, without having to set them up in the docker container. You can just use them as normal, right from your workstation. (Also, it means you don't have to rebuild the docker container each time you want to build FreeCAD.)
* For those using obscure *nix distros and [[Compile_on_Linux#Getting_the_dependencies|instructions are not available]] for fetching dependencies, all you need to install on your workstation is docker, which is quite commonly available across many distributions.
* It provides a static, immutable development environment. I personally find this useful when developing to reduce the number of potential variables that could be causing an issue. You know you've not altered something esoteric in the environment between builds. For developers collaborating, and both using the same docker container, you can be sure you're both working from the same environment, which reduces communication errors caused by differences in environment.
</div>

<span id="Docker_Repository"></span>
==Docker Repositorio==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Original: https://gitlab.com/daviddaish/freecad_docker_env
* Official: https://GitHub.com/FreeCAD/Docker
</div>

<span id="Prerequisites"></span>
==Prerequisitos==

* 10 GB de almacenamiento libre
* Docker

<span id="Installation"></span>
==Instalación==

<span id="Download_the_source"></span>
===Descargar la fuente===

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
La mejor manera de obtener el código fuente de FreeCAD es clonar el [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD repositorio Git]. Para ello se necesita el programa {{incode|git}} que puede instalarse fácilmente en la mayoría de las distribuciones de Linux y Mac OS, y también puede obtenerse en el [http://git-scm.com/ sitio web oficial].
</div>

Esto colocará una copia de la última versión del código fuente de FreeCAD en un nuevo directorio llamado {{incode|freecad_source}}.

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD.git ~/my_code/freecad_source
}}

Para más información sobre el uso de Git y la contribución de código al proyecto, véase [[Source code management/es|Gestión de código fuente]].

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Create build directory===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Create a directory to hold your compiled FreeCAD source.
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
mkdir ~/my_code/freecad_build
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Pull Docker image===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Pull the Docker image. (Official image coming soon.)
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
docker pull registry.gitlab.com/daviddaish/freecad_docker_env:latest
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Allow access to your window manager===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
In order for FreeCAD to launch it's GUI from within the Docker container, you need to give Docker access permissions to your window manager. In most Linux distributions, this is the X window system. You can use the below command to allow blanket access to X, until you reboot or logoff your computer.
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
xhost +
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If you're connected to any untrusted systems, such as via {{incode|ssh}}, this will make you vulnerable to malicious code. Either close any {{incode|ssh}} connections, or look into more secure xhost permissions, which is outside the scope of this tutorial.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
====MacOS users====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For those using macOS, the X window system may not be installed. The XQuartz project is a long running open source project that will allow you to add it to your computer. [https://www.xquartz.org/ You can find it here].
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Launch the docker image===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Assign environment variables so the Docker container will mount FreeCAD's source code, and build directory. In addition, you can mount an extra directory to contain any files you'd like to use for testing purposes. In the below snippet, we've left it as your home directory as a simple default.
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
fc_source=~/my_code/freecad_source
fc_build=~/my_code/freecad_build
other_files=~/
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Launch the Docker image.
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
docker run -it --rm \
-v $fc_source:/mnt/source \
-v $fc_build:/mnt/build \
-v $other_files:/mnt/files \
-e "DISPLAY" -e "QT_X11_NO_MITSHM=1" -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix:ro \
registry.gitlab.com/daviddaish/freecad_docker_env:latest
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Build FreeCAD===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
You can build FreeCAD using the installed build script, or using your preferred method.
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
/root/build_script.sh
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Run FreeCAD===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Once FreeCAD has been built, it can be run as normal.
</div>

{{Code|lang=bash|code=
/mnt/build/bin/FreeCAD
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
You can find the attached directories in the {{incode|/mnt}} directory.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Discussion==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=42954 Docker env build container]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=48266 VSCode setup with Docker (1)]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=427812#p427812 VSCode setup with Docker (2)]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Related==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [[AppImage]]
</div>


{{Docnav/es
|[[Compile_on_MacOS/es|Compilar en MacOS]]
|[[FreeCAD_Docker_CLI_mode/es|FreeCAD Modo Docker CLI]]
}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]