<languages/>

{{Docnav/es
|[[Feature_list/es|Lista de características]]
|[[Install_on_Linux/es|Instalación en Linux]]
}}

{{TOCright}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Standard Installation ==
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
La forma más fácil de ''instalar FreeCAD en Windows'' es usando el paquete de instalación descargable de arriba. Esta página describe el uso y las características del ''NSIS Instalador'' para más opciones de instalación.
</div>

Si desea descargar una versión en desarrollo (que puede ser inestable), mira la página [[Download/es|Descargas]].

Después de descargar el archivo .exe (NSIS Installer), haga doble clic en él para iniciar el proceso de instalación.

Abajo hay más información sobre algunas opciones técnicas. Sin embargo, la mayoría de los usuarios no necesitan más que los anteriores archivos .exe. Continuar a [[Getting started/de|Empieza]] después de que la instalación se haya completado.

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Installation for all users of the Windows system ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
By default FreeCAD will be installed for the user that executes the installer. If this user only has user permissions, the default installation path is:
: {{FileName|C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\FreeCAD X.YY}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If the installer is executed by an admin user, or you execute it as admin, you can choose if FreeCAD should be installed for all users of the system or just for you. The default is for all users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If installed for all users, the default installation path is:
: {{FileName|C:\Program Files\FreeCAD X.YY}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Silent Installation ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
To install FreeCAD silently, you can execute the installer from the command line:
</div>

{{Code|lang=text|code=
FreeCAD-~.exe /S
}}
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Default settings will be used for all options. A custom installation path can be specified in this manner:
</div>

{{Code|lang=text|code=
FreeCAD-~.exe /S /D=A path to FreeCAD with spaces
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
By default, even with silent installations, there will be a short popup when the installer is checked for corruption. This so-called cyclic redundancy check only takes a few seconds at most. To disable this corruption check:
</div>

{{Code|lang=text|code=
FreeCAD-~.exe /S /NCRC
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Note that this {{Incode|/NCRC}} flag is '''not recommended''' since the corruption check assures that the installer was e.g. completely downloaded.
</div>

== Chocolatey ==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Sin embargo, se recomienda encarecidamente utilizar un gestor de paquetes como Chocolatey para mantener el software actualizado. Puede instalar Chocolatey siguiendo [https://chocolatey.org/install estas instrucciones] y luego abrir un terminal PowerShell como administrador y ejecutarlo:
</div>

{{Code|lang=text|code=
choco install freecad
}} 

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
de vez en cuando puedes actualizar tu software con
</div>

{{Code|lang=text|code=
choco upgrade freecad
}}

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
para obtener la última versión disponible en el repositorio de Chocolatey. Si hay algún problema con el paquete de chocolatey, puede contactar con los mantenedores en [https://chocolatey.org/packages/freecad esta página].
</div> 

<span id="Uninstallation"></span>
== Desinstalación ==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
To uninstall FreeCAD it is preferable to use the Windows tools for uninstalling software. Alternatively you can execute the uninstaller directly. This is the file:
: {{FileName|Uninstall-FreeCAD.exe}}
You can find it in the folder where FreeCAD is installed.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The uninstaller can also be executed silently using the command line:
</div>

{{Code|lang=text|code=
Uninstall-FreeCAD.exe /S}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Note that (silent) uninstallation will fail if there is a running instance of FreeCAD, even if that instance is not the version being uninstalled.
</div>


{{Docnav/es
|[[Feature_list/es|Lista de características]]
|[[Install_on_Linux/es|Instalación en Linux]]
}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}