<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

<span id="Introduction"></span>
==Introducción==

El menú estándar da acceso a herramientas que se pueden utilizar en todos los entornos de trabajo.  El menú puede verse ligeramente diferente según el entorno de escritorio (KDE, Gnome, Windows, macOS, etc.). Los entornos de trabajo también pueden agregar submenús dependiendo de cómo decidan estructurar sus herramientas.

<!--Please keep info below synchronized with Std_Base, Std_File_Menu etc.-->
{{StdMenu
|
[[Std_File_Menu/es|Archivo]]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[[Std_Edit_Menu/es|Editar]]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[[Std_View_Menu/es|Ver]]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[[Std_Tools_Menu/es|Herramientas]]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[[Std_Macro_Menu/es|Macro]]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[[Std_Windows_Menu/es|Ventanas]]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[[Std_Help_Menu/es|Ayuda]]
}}
{{Caption|El menú estándar}}

<span id="Sub-menus"></span>
==Sub-menús==

El menú estándar se compone de 7 submenús:

<!--Please keep info below synchronized with Std_File_Menu etc.-->
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_File_Menu|File]]}} The File menu provides tools related to file input and output.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Edit_Menu|Edit]]}} The Edit menu provides tools to change the model.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_View_Menu|View]]}} The View menu provides tools to change the [[3D view|3D view]] and the view properties of objects in the model, and tools related to the display of interface components.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Tools_Menu|Tools]]}} The Tools menu provides tools for debugging models, customizing FreeCAD's behavior, as well as auxiliary tools.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Macro_Menu|Macro]]}} The Macro menu provides tools related to the recording and execution of [[Macros|macros]].
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Windows_Menu|Windows]]}} The Windows menu allows switching and rearranging of [[Main_view_area|Main view area]] windows.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Help_Menu|Help]]}} The Help menu provides access to the help system and links to the FreeCAD website and forum.


{{Std_Base_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Interface navi{{#translation:}}}}