<languages/>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{Docnav/ro
|[[Module Creation/ro|Module Creation]]
|[[Testing/ro|Testing]]
}}
</div>

{{TOCright}}

<span id="Test_First"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Testează mai întâi ==
Înainte de a trece prin durerea de a depana utilizați [[Testing/ro|Test framework]] pentru a verifica dacă testele standard funcționează corect. Dacă acestea nu se execută complet, este posibil să fie o instalare defectuoasă.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Before you go through the pain of debugging use the [[Testing|Test framework]] to check if the standard tests work properly. If they do not run complete there is possibly a broken installation.
</div>

<span id="Command_Line"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Linie de Commandă ==
Depanarea ''debugging'' în FreeCAD este susținută de câteva mecanisme interne. Versiunea liniei de comandă a FreeCAD oferă câteva opțiuni pentru suportul de depanare.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The ''debugging'' of FreeCAD is supported by a few internal mechanisms. The command line version of FreeCAD provides some options for debugging support.
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Acestea sunt opțiunile recunoscute curent în FreeCAD 0.15:
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Generic options:
  -v [ --version ]      Prints version string
  -h [ --help ]         Prints help message
  -c [ --console ]      Starts in console mode
  --response-file arg   Can be specified with '@name', too
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Configuration:
  -l [ --write-log ]       Writes a log file to:
                           $HOME/.FreeCAD/FreeCAD.log
  --log-file arg           Unlike to --write-log this allows to log to an 
                           arbitrary file
  -u [ --user-cfg ] arg    User config file to load/save user settings
  -s [ --system-cfg ] arg  System config file to load/save system settings
  -t [ --run-test ] arg    Test level
  -M [ --module-path ] arg Additional module paths
  -P [ --python-path ] arg Additional python paths
</div>

<span id="Generating_a_Backtrace"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Generarea unei Backtrace ==
Dacă rulați o versiune experimentală de FreeCAD care este încă în curs de dezvoltare, aceasta poate "îngheța". Vă puteți ajuta să rezolvați astfel de probleme furnizând dezvoltatorilor o "backtrace". Pentru a face acest lucru, trebuie să executați o "Debug build" a software-ului. "Debug build" este un parametru care este setat în timpul compilării, deci va trebui fie să compilați FreeCAD dvs înșivă, fie să obțineți o versiune "debug" precompilată.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If you are running a version of FreeCAD from the bleeding edge of the development curve, it may "crash".  You can help solve such problems by providing the developers with a "backtrace".  To do this, you need to be running a "debug build" of the software. "Debug build" is a parameter that is set at compile time, so you'll either need to compile FreeCAD yourself, or obtain a pre-compiled "debug" version.
</div>  

=== For Linux ===

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

Linux Debugging → 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Prerequisites:
</div> 

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
* varianta software de package gdb instalat
* o depanare a variantei compilate a FreeCAD (în acest moment disponibilă prin [[Compile_on_Linux#For_a_Debug_build|building from source]])
* un model FreeCAD care a cauzat crash-ul
</div>

Pași:
Introduceți următoarelor în fereastra terminalului dvs:

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Find FreeCAD binary on your system:
</div>

{{Code|code=
$ whereis freecad
freecad: /usr/local/freecad <--- for example

$ cd /usr/local/freecad/bin
$ gdb FreeCAD
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
GNUdebugger will output some initializing information. The (gdb) shows GNUDebugger is running in the terminal, now input:
</div>

{{Code|code=
(gdb) handle SIG33 noprint nostop
(gdb) run
}}

FreeCAD va porni.  Efectuați pașii care determină ca FreeCAD să se prăbușească sau să înghețe, apoi introduceți în fereastra terminalului:

{{Code|code=
(gdb) bt
}}

Aceasta va genera o listă lungă a exact ceea ce a făcut programul atunci când sa prăbușit sau a înghețat. Includeți acest lucru cu raportul problemei dvs.

{{Code|code=
(gdb) bt full
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Print the values of the local variables also. This can be combined with a number to limit the number of frames shown.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<span id="For_macOS"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== For MacOSX ===
</div>

<!-- START OF COLLAPISBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
MacOSX Debugging →
</div> 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Prerequisites:
</div> 

* software package lldb installed
* a debug build of FreeCAD
* a FreeCAD model that causes a crash

Steps:
Enter the following in your terminal window:

{{Code|code=
$ cd FreeCAD/bin
$ lldb FreeCAD
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
LLDB will output some initializing information. The (lldb) shows the debugger is running in the terminal, now input:
</div>

{{Code|code=
(lldb) run
}}

FreeCAD va porni.  Efectuați pașii care determină ca FreeCAD să se prăbușească sau să înghețe, apoi introduceți în fereastra terminalului:

{{Code|code=
(lldb) bt
}}

Aceasta va genera o listă lungă a exact ceea ce a făcut programul atunci când sa prăbușit sau a înghețat. Includeți acest lucru cu raportul problemei dvs.

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== List Libraries Loaded by FreeCAD ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
(Applicable to Linux and macOS)
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Sometimes it's helpful to understand what libraries FreeCAD is loading, specifically if there are multiple libraries being loaded of the same name but different versions (version collision). In order to see which libraries are loaded by FreeCAD when it crashes you should open a terminal and run it in the debugger. In a second terminal window, find out the process id of FreeCAD:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{incode|ps -A &#124; grep FreeCAD}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Use the returned id and pass it to {{incode|lsof}}:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{incode| lsof -p process_id}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This prints a long list of loaded resources. So for example, if trying to ascertain if more than one Coin3d library versions is loaded, scroll through the list or search directly for Coin in the output:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{incode|lsof -p process_id &#124; grep Coin}}
</div>

<span id="Python_Debugging"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Python Debugging ==
Pentru o abordare mai modernă a depanării Python, cel puțin în Windows, a se vedea asta 
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=22&t=28901 Debugging macros with VS 2017]
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=35383 Python workbenches debugging]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For a more modern approach to debugging Python, see these posts:
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=22&t=28901 Debugging macros with VS 2017]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=35383 Python workbenches debugging]
* [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=40251 python3.dll, Qt5Windgets.dll, Qt5Gui.dll and Qt5Core.dll not found]
</div>

=== winpdb ===

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

winpdb Debugging → 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Here is an example of using ''Winpdb'' inside FreeCAD:
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Avem nevoie de depanatorul Python: '' Winpdb ''. Dacă nu aveți instalat, instalați-l sub Ubuntu / Debian cu:
</div>

{{Code|code=
sudo apt-get install winpdb
}}

Acum permiteți configurarea programului de depanare.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
# Start ''Winpdb''.
# Set the debugger password to "test": Go to menu ''File''->''Password" and set the password.
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Acum vom rula pas cu pas un script de testare Python în FreeCAD.
</div>

# Rulați winpdb și definiți password (e.g. test)
# Creați un fișier Python cu acest conținut

{{Code|code=
import rpdb2
rpdb2.start_embedded_debugger("test")
import FreeCAD
import Part
import Draft
print "hello"
print "hello"
import Draft
points=[FreeCAD.Vector(-3.0,-1.0,0.0),FreeCAD.Vector(-2.0,0.0,0.0)]
Draft.makeWire(points,closed=False,face=False,support=None)
}}

# Dați Start la FreeCAD și încărcați fișierul de mai sus în FreeCAD
# Apăsați F6 ptru al-l executa
# Acum FreeCAD se va bloca (nu va răspunde) deoarece debuggerul Python este în așteptare
# Comutați pe Windpdb GUI și click on "Attach". După câteva secunde un articol "<Input>" apare acolo unde ați făcut dublu clic
# Acum Scriptul aflat în execuție curentă apare în Winpdb.
# Definiți o pauză la ultima linie și apăsați F5
# Acum apăsați F7 pentru a intra în codul  Python al Draft.makeWire

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

=== Visual Studio Code (VS Code) ===

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

VS Code Debugging → 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Prerequisites:
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The ptvsd package needs to be installed in a Python 3 outside of FreeCAD, then the module must be copied to FreeCAD's Python library folder.
</div>

{{Code|code=
# In a cmd window that has a path to you local Python 3:
pip install ptvsd
# Then if your Python is installed in C:\Users\<userid>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python37
# and your FreeCAD is installed in C:\freecad\bin
xcopy "C:\Users\<userid>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python37\Lib\site-packages\ptvsd" "C:\freecad\bin\Lib\site-packages\ptvsd"
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
[https://pypi.org/project/ptvsd/ pypi page]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
[https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_remote-debugging Visual Studio Code documentation for remote debugging]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Steps:
* Add following code at the beginning of your script
</div>

{{Code|code=
import ptvsd
print("Waiting for debugger attach")
# 5678 is the default attach port in the VS Code debug configurations
ptvsd.enable_attach(address=('localhost', 5678), redirect_output=True)
ptvsd.wait_for_attach()
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Add a debug configuration in Visual Studio Code {{MenuCommand|Debug → Add Configurations…}}. 
* The config should look like this:
</div>

<!--NOT CHANGE THE <pre> </pre> BALISE CAUSE THE PIPE OR SPACE IN MACRO CODE CUT THE MACRO-->
<pre>
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Python: Attacher",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "attach",
            "port": 5678,
            "host": "localhost",
            "pathMappings": [
                {
                    "localRoot": "${workspaceFolder}",
                    "remoteRoot": "."
                }
            ]
        },
</pre>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* In VS Code add a breakpoint anywhere you want.
* Launch the script in FreeCAD. FreeCAD freeze waiting for attachment.
* In VS Code start debugging using created configuration. You should see variables in debugger area.
* When setting breakpoints, VS Code will complain about not finding the .py file opened in the VS Code editor.
** Change "remoteRoot": "." to "remoteRoot": "<directory of file>"
*** For example, if the Python file resides in ''/home/FC_myscripts/myscript.py''
*** Change to: "remoteRoot": "/home/FC_myscripts"
** If you're just debugging FreeCAD macros from the FreeCAD macro folder, and that folder is "C:/Users/<userid>/AppData/Roaming/FreeCAD/Macro", then use:
*** "localRoot": "C:/Users/<userid>/AppData/Roaming/FreeCAD/Macro",
*** "remoteRoot": "C:/Users/<userid>/AppData/Roaming/FreeCAD/Macro"
* If your macro can't find ptvsd despite having installed it somewhere precede 'import ptvsd' with
</div>

{{Code|code=
from sys import path
sys.path.append('/path/to/site-packages')
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Where the path is to the directory where ptvsd was installed.
* On the left bottom edge of VSCode you can choose the Python executable - it's best to make this the version packaged with FreeCAD.
In the Mac package it is /Applications/FreeCAD.App/Contents/Resources/bin/python.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
You can locate it on your system by typing
</div>

{{Code|code=
import sys
print(sys.executable)
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
into FreeCAD's Python console.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== With LiClipse and AppImage ===
</div>

<!-- START OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV --><div class="toccolours mw-collapsible mw-collapsed" style="width:800px;">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
LiClipse Debugging →
</div> 

<div class="mw-collapsible-content">

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Extract AppImage.
</div>

{{Code|code=
> ./your location/FreeCAD_xxx.AppImage --appimage-extract
> cd squashfs-root/
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The sqashfs-root location is where the debugger later on is hooked up to.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Make sure you can start a FreeCAD session from within the squashfs-root location.
</div>

{{Code|code=
squashfs-root> ./usr/bin/freecadcmd
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Should start up a FreeCAD commandline session.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Install [https://www.liclipse.com/ LiClipse].
** Comes ready with pydev and has installers for all platforms.
** For linux it is just to extract (to any location) and run.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Configure liclipse for debugging.
** Right-click pydev icon (upper right corner) and choose customize.
*** Activate "PyDev Debug" (through checkbox, or it might be needed to go to tab "Action Set Availability" and activate there first).
*** In the pydev menu you can now choose "start debug server".
** Use menu window/open perspective/other > debug.
*** Right-click debug icon (upper right corner) and choose customize.
*** Checking "Debug" brings the debugging navigation tools to the toolbar.
** Open preferences through menu window/preferences.
*** In PyDev/Interpreters add "new Interpreter by browsing".
*** The added interpreter should be: {{incode|your loc/squashfs-root/usr/bin/python}}.
*** If you are only using this for fc, you can add AddOn workbench folders as well, or do that in a pydev-project later on.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Find path to {{incode|pydevd.py}} in your liclipse installation.
** Something along the lines of: {{incode|your location/liclipse/plugins/org.python.pydev.xx/pysrc}}.
* Create a regular pydev-project in liclipse.
** Import external sources, for example a macro that you want to debug, or an external workbench.
** In that macro (or workbench .py file) add the code lines:
</div>

: {{Code|code=
import sys; sys.path.append("path ending with /pysrc")
import pydevd; pydevd.settrace()
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
:* This is where the execution will halt when the macro is run.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Start the liclipse debug server (menu pydev).
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Start FreeCAD.
</div>

{{Code|code=
squashfs-root> ./usr/bin/freecad
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Run the macro (or any other file with a {{incode|pydevd.settrace()}} trigger) from within freecad, as you would normally do.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Happy debugging.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The use of LiClipse for remote debugging, and the steps described here related to liclipse, should work on any platform.  The parts related to AppImage is for linux only.
</div>

</div></div> <!-- END OF COLLAPSIBLE DIV -->

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Pyzo ===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
See the [[Pyzo|main article about Pyzo]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Debugging OpenCasCade ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For developers needing to dig deeper in to the OpenCasCade kernel, user @abdullah has created a [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=47017 thread] orientation discussing how to do so.
</div>


<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{Docnav/ro
|[[Module Creation/ro|Module Creation]]
|[[Testing/ro|Testing]]
}}
</div>

{{Powerdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Python Code{{#translation:}}]]
{{clear}}