<languages/>

{{Docnav
|[[Getting_started|Getting started]]
|[[Selection_methods|Selection methods]]
}}

{{TOCright}}

==Overview==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
'''Modelul mouse-ului''' in FreeCAD este constituit din comenzi folosite la navigarea spațiului 3D și interacțiunea cu obiectele afișate. In versiunea actuală există trei moduri diferite de navigare. Modul implicit este numit "Navigare CAD" și este foarte simplu și practic, dar FreeCAD are două stiluri alternative modelate dupa navigarea în Inventor si Blender.
</div>

For more information about selecting objects see [[Selection_methods|Selection methods]].

For more information about manipulating objects see [[Std_TransformManip|Std TransformManip]].

== Selecting a navigation style ==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
* In dialogul pentru [[Preferences Editor/ro|preferinte]], secțiunea Afișare, tab-ul ''Vizualizare 3D'';
* Click-dreapta în spațiul liber în zona de vizualizare 3D, selectând ''Stil de navigare'' în meniul contextual.
</div>

== Available navigation styles ==

With all navigation styles, unless selecting objects from a sketch in edit mode, you must hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} to select multiple objects.

The following keyboard options are available for all styles:

* {{KEY|Ctrl}} + {{ASCII|43}} and {{KEY|Ctrl}} + {{ASCII|22}} or {{KEY|PgUp}} and {{KEY|PgDn}} to zoom in and out, respectively.
* The arrow keys, {{ASCII|17}}{{ASCII|16}}{{ASCII|30}}{{ASCII|31}}, to pan the view left/right and up/down.
* {{KEY|Shift}} + {{ASCII|17}} and {{KEY|Shift}} + {{ASCII|16}} to rotate the view by 90 degrees.

<span id="Blender_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Navigare Tip Blender ===
</div>

The Blender navigation style was modeled after [https://www.blender.org Blender].

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Blender Navigation a fost modelat după [http://www.blender.org Blender]. Anterior nu a existat o panoramare cu mouse-ul și a fost necesară utilizarea tastei {{KEY | SHIFT}} pentru a panorama vederea. Acest lucru s-a schimbat în 2016, cu o adăugare de caracteristici. Pentru a panorama vizualizarea, puteți apăsa acum butoanele mouse-ului stânga și dreapta și trageți în vizualizare.
{{Blender Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer.
}}

=== CAD navigation ===

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Navigare CAD (implicita) ===
Acesta este modul de navigare implicit și permite utilizatorului un control simplu al vizualizării; nu este nevoie de folosirea tastaturii decât pentru selecție multiplă.
{{CAD Navigation/ro}}

{{CAD Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view<br>First method
|Rotate_view_alt_name=Rotate view<br>Alternate method
|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

Holding down {{KEY|Ctrl}} allows the selection of multiple objects.
|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Pan_mode_text=Pan mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer. {{Version|0.17}}
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Clicking the middle mouse button re-centers the view on the location of the cursor.
|Zoom_mode_text=Zoom mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}} keys, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer. {{Version|0.17}}
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

The cursor location when the middle mouse button is pressed determines the center of rotation. Rotation works like spinning a ball which rotates around its center. If the buttons are released before you stop the mouse motion, the view continues [[spinning]], if this is enabled.

A double click with the middle mouse button sets a new center of rotation.
|Rotate_view_mode_text=Rotate mode: hold the {{KEY|Shift}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer. {{Version|0.17}}
|Rotate_view_alt_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

With this method the middle mouse button may be released after the right mouse button is held pressed.

Users who use the mouse with their right hand may find this method easier than the first method.
}}
</div>

{{CAD Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view<br>First method
|Rotate_view_alt_name=Rotate view<br>Alternate method
|Pan_name=Pan

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Clicking the middle mouse button re-centers the view on the location of the cursor.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

If the buttons are released before you stop the mouse motion, the view continues spinning, if this is enabled.

A double click with the middle mouse button sets a new center of rotation.

|Rotate_view_alt_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

With this method the middle mouse button may be released after the right mouse button is held pressed.

Users who use the mouse with their right hand may find this method easier than the first method.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Zoom_mode_text=Zoom mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}} keys, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_mode_text=Rotate mode: hold the {{KEY|Shift}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer.

|Pan_mode_text=Pan mode: hold the {{KEY|Ctrl}} key, press the right mouse button once, then move the pointer.
}}

<span id="Gesture_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Navigarea prin Gesturi(v0.16) ===
</div>

This style was tailored for use with a touchscreen and pen. Nevertheless, it can also be used with a mouse, and is recommended for use when using a Mac with a trackpad.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Acest stil de navigare a fost adaptat pentru utilizarea cu touchscreen și stiloul, dar este foarte ușor de utilizat cu mouse-ul.
{{Gesture Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Tilt_view_name=Tilt view
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Select_gesture_text=Tap to select.
|Pan_text=Hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Pan_gesture_text=Drag with two fingers.

Alternatively, tap and hold, then drag. This simulates the pan with the right mouse button.
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
|Zoom_gesture_text=Drag two fingers (pinch) closer or farther apart.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
In [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]] and other edit modes, this behavior is disabled. Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when pressing the mouse button to enter rotation mode.

To set the camera's focus point for rotation, click a point with the middle mouse button. Alternatively, aim the cursor at a point and press {{KEY|H}} on the keyboard.
|Rotate_view_gesture_text=Drag with one finger to rotate.

Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when in the [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]].
|Tilt_view_text=Hold both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer sideways. 
|Tilt_view_gesture_text=Rotate the imaginary line formed by two touch points.

On v0.18 this method is disabled by default. To enable, go to {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences → Display}}, and untick "Disable touchscreen tilt gesture" checkbox.
}}
</div>

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
In [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]] and other edit modes, this behavior is disabled. Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when pressing the mouse button to enter rotation mode.

To set the camera's focus point for rotation, click a point with the middle mouse button. Alternatively, aim the cursor at a point and press {{KEY|H}} on the keyboard.

|Pan_text=Hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Tilt_view_text=Hold both left and right mouse buttons, then move the pointer sideways.

|Select_gesture_text=Tap to select.

|Zoom_gesture_text=Drag two fingers (pinch) closer or farther apart.

|Rotate_view_gesture_text=Drag with one finger to rotate.

Hold {{KEY|Alt}} when in the [[Sketcher Workbench|Sketcher]].

|Pan_gesture_text=Drag with two fingers.

Alternatively, tap and hold, then drag. This simulates the pan with the right mouse button.

|Tilt_view_gesture_text=Rotate the imaginary line formed by two touch points.

This method is disabled by default. To enable, go to {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences → Display → Navigation}}, and uncheck the "Disable touchscreen tilt gesture" checkbox.
}}

<span id="Maya-Gesture_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Navigare tip Maya ===
</div>

In Maya-Gesture Navigation, panning, zooming, and rotating the view require the {{KEY|Alt}} key together with a mouse button; therefore, a three-button mouse is required. It's also possible to use gestures as this style was developed over the [[#Gesture_navigation|Gesture navigation]] style.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
În navigația Maya-Gesture, toate mișcările de vizualizare sunt activate prin apăsarea butonului {{KEY | ALT}} și a butonului mouse-ului, astfel încât să fie necesar un mouse cu 3 butoane pentru a utiliza corect acest mod de navigare. Alternativ, este posibil să utilizați gesturi, deoarece acest mod a fost dezvoltat în modul normal de navigare prin gesturi.
{{MayaGesture Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Tilt_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}} and both left and right mouse buttons, and then move the pointer sideways.
}}

=== OpenCascade navigation ===

The OpenCascade navigation style was modeled after [https://www.opencascade.com/ OpenCascade].

{{OpenCascade Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer. It is possible to hold {{KEY|Ctrl}}.
}}

=== OpenInventor navigation ===

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Navigare Tip Inventor ===
In acest tip de navigare modelată după [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Inventor Open Inventor] (a nu se confunda cu Autodesk Inventor) nu exista selectie cu mouse-ul. Pentru selectare trebuie apasată tasta {{KEY|CTRL}}.
{{Inventor Navigation/ro}}

{{OpenInventor Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Select_text=Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}}, then press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer. 
|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

This style is not based on Autodesk Inventor.

{{OpenInventor Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}}, then press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} instead to select multiple objects.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

=== OpenSCAD navigation ===

The OpenSCAD navigation style was modeled after [https://openscad.org/ OpenSCAD].

{{OpenSCAD_Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

{{VersionMinus|0.21}} Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}} when pressing the mouse button to drag an object in a sketch in edit mode.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Or hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold the left mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, and when a sketch is in edit mode, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

=== Revit navigation ===

The Revit navigation style was modeled after [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autodesk_Revit Revit].

{{Revit Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold the middle mouse button, then press and hold the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold both left and right mouse buttons, then move the pointer.
}}

=== TinkerCAD navigation ===

The TinkerCAD navigation style was modeled after [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tinkercad TinkerCAD].

{{TinkerCAD Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Pan_name=Pan

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.

|Rotate_view_text=Press the right mouse button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold the middle mouse button, then move the pointer.
}}

<span id="Touchpad_navigation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Navigarea cu Touchpad-ul ===
</div>

With the Touchpad navigation style, panning, zooming, and rotating the view require a modifier key together with the touchpad. This style can also be used with a mouse.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
În Navigatorul cu touchpad, nici panningul, nici zoom-ul, nici rotirea vizualizării nu sunt operații numai pentru mouse (sau doar touchpad).
{{Touchpad Navigation
|Select_name=Select
|Pan_name=Pan
|Zoom_name=Zoom
|Rotate_view_name=Rotate view
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}
|PageUp={{KEY|PageUp}}
|PageDown={{KEY|PageDown}}
|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.
|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}}, then move the pointer.
|Zoom_text=Use {{KEY|PageUp}} and {{KEY|PageDown}} to zoom in and out.
|Zoom_alt_text=Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and {{KEY|Ctrl}}, then move the pointer.
|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}}, then move the pointer.
|Rotate_view_alt_text=Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the left button, then move the pointer.
}}
</div>

|Ctrl={{KEY|Ctrl}}
|Shift={{KEY|Shift}}
|Alt={{KEY|Alt}}

|Select_text=Press the left mouse button over an object you want to select.

|Zoom_text=Hold {{KEY|Ctrl}} and {{KEY|Shift}}, then move the pointer.

|Rotate_view_text=Hold {{KEY|Alt}}, then move the pointer.

Alternatively, hold {{KEY|Shift}} and the left button, then move the pointer.

|Pan_text=Hold {{KEY|Shift}}, then move the pointer.
}}

<span id="Hardware_support"></span>
== Suport Hardware ==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
FreeCAD suportă și un număr de [[3D input devices/ro|dispozitive 3D]].
</div>

<span id="Recommended_navigation_for_macOS"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Probleme la Mac OS X  ==
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Recent am primit rapoarte [http://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=3592&start=0 pe forum] de la utilizatorii de Mac la care acele combinații de taste și  butoane  de mouse nu funcționează conform așteptărilor. Din păcate, niciunul dintre dezvoltatori nu deține un Mac, nici ceilalți contributori obișnuiți. Avem nevoie de ajutorul tău pentru a determina ce butoane și combinații de taste ale mouse-ului funcționează astfel încât să putem actualiza acest
</div>


{{docnav/ro|Getting started/ro|Document structure/ro}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}