<languages/>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Docnav
|[[Part_XOR|XOR]]
|[[Part_Defeaturing|Defeaturing]]
|[[Part_Workbench|Part]]
|IconL=Part_XOR.svg
|IconR=Part_Defeaturing.svg
|IconC=Workbench_Part.svg
}}
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{GuiCommand|Name=Part CheckGeometry‏‎|MenuLocation=Part → Check geometry|Workbenches=[[Part Workbench|Part]]|SeeAlso=}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Description==
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
==Introducere==
L’outil de vérification de la géométrie vous permet de vérifier si vous avez un solide valide.
</div>

<span id="Usage"></span>
==Utilizare==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Instrumentul este disponibil în bara de lucru Part din meniul Part sau cu butonul din bara de instrumente Booleene.
Selectați o piesă (aveți grijă să selectați întreaga componentă și nu doar o fațetă pentru a verifica dacă există un solid valid), apoi lansați instrumentul.
Veți vedea rezultatele în panoul Task.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Results will be reported in the [[Task_Panel|task panel]]. If the check produced errors: click in the report on a specific error message and the corresponding geometric object (edge, face, etc.) will be highlighted in the [[3D_View|3D View]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Options==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Skip this settings page===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If ticked, subsequent invocations of the command skip showing the {{MenuCommand|Settings}} task panel.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Run boolean operation check===
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Dacă doriți să activați verificările extra BOP (BOP = Operații booleene), apoi urmați acești pași:
Tools menu > Edit Parameters > Preferences > Mod > Part > CheckGeometry
apoi, în panoul din dreapta, faceți dublu clic sub valoarea pentru parametrul RunBOPCheck și setați la true, apoi faceți clic pe Save on disk, închideți și reporniți.
Vedeți captura de ecran de mai jos.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Single-threaded===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Run the geometry check in a single thread. This is slower, but more stable.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Log errors===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
If ticked, any errors found are also logged in the [[Report_View|Report View]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Expand shape content===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
In addition to detecting potential geometry errors, this command shows a range of properties regarding the selected object:
* Checked object
* Shape type
* Number of geometric entities: vertices, edges, wires, faces, shells, solids, compsolids, compounds, total shapes
* Geometric and mass properties:
** Area
** Volume
** Mass
** Length
** Center of mass
** Orientation
** Symmetry axis
** Symmetry point
** Moments
** First axis of inertia
** Second axis of inertia
** Third axis of inertia
** Radius of gyration
** Global placement
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Advanced shape content===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Show advanced shape content. Changes will take effect next time you use the check geometry command.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Individual boolean operation checks===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The user can choose the type of boolean operation to be checked:
* Bad type
* Self-intersect
* Too small edge
* Nonrecoverable face
* Continuity
* Incompatibility of face
* Incompatibility of vertex
* Incompatibility of edge
* Invalid curve on surface
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Notes==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [[App_Link|App Link]] objects linked to the appropriate object types and [[App_Part|App Part]] containers with the appropriate visible objects inside can also be checked using this command. For [[App_Link|App Links]] the shape of the linked object is checked. For [[App_Part|App Part]] containers the visible objects within are checked as compounds.
* FreeCAD has no methods to automatically repair geometry. If faults are detected the steps involved to create the model need to be examined and fixed manually.
</div>


<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Docnav
|[[Part_XOR|XOR]]
|[[Part_Defeaturing|Defeaturing]]
|[[Part_Workbench|Part]]
|IconL=Part_XOR.svg
|IconR=Part_Defeaturing.svg
|IconC=Workbench_Part.svg
}}
</div>

{{Part_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}