<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

<span id="Introduction"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
===Preambul===
Meniul FreeCAd standard permite acce3sul la funcții care sunt utilizate în toate atelierele.  Meniul dvs poate arăta ușor diferit funcție de mediul dsktop (KDE, Gnome, Windows, OS X, etc).
</div>

The standard menu gives access to tools that can be used in all workbenches. The menu may look slightly different depending on the desktop environment (KDE, Gnome, Windows, macOS, etc.). Workbenches can also add sub-menus depending on how they decide to structure their tools.

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{StdMenu| File &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Edit &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  View &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Tools &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Macro &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Workbench &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Measure &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Windows &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Help }}
</div>

==Sub-menus==

The standard menu is composed of 7 sub-menus:

<!--Please keep info below synchronized with Std_File_Menu etc.-->
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_File_Menu|File]]}} The File menu provides tools related to file input and output.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Edit_Menu|Edit]]}} The Edit menu provides tools to change the model.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_View_Menu|View]]}} The View menu provides tools to change the [[3D view|3D view]] and the view properties of objects in the model, and tools related to the display of interface components.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Tools_Menu|Tools]]}} The Tools menu provides tools for debugging models, customizing FreeCAD's behavior, as well as auxiliary tools.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Macro_Menu|Macro]]}} The Macro menu provides tools related to the recording and execution of [[Macros|macros]].
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Windows_Menu|Windows]]}} The Windows menu allows switching and rearranging of [[Main_view_area|Main view area]] windows.
* {{StdMenu|[[Std_Help_Menu|Help]]}} The Help menu provides access to the help system and links to the FreeCAD website and forum.


{{Std_Base_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Interface navi{{#translation:}}}}