<languages/>
{{UnfinishedDocu{{#translation:}}}}

{{Docnav
|[[CAM_Postprocessor_Customization|Postprocessor Customization]]
|[[CAM_Preferences|Preferences]]
|[[CAM_Workbench|CAM]]
|IconL=
|IconR=
|IconC=Workbench_CAM.svg
}}

{{TOCright}}

<span id="Description"></span>
==Descrizione==

Queste funzioni sperimentali consentono la fresatura di [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=36773 facce] e [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=35867 tasche]

Queste funzioni sono in fase di sviluppo iniziale. Possono esistere dei bug. Grazie per il vostro feedback e test.

<span id="Installation"></span>
== Installazione ==

Ideally, upgrade to version 0.19.16502, or higher.

Download these scripts:

* PathProfileFaces.py [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=36773 available here] and
* PathAreaOp.py is [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=35867 here]
* PathPocketShape.py from [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=35867 here too] (for pocket operations)

Place them in your FreeCAD/Mod/CAM/PathScripts directory, *after* renaming your originals for safe keeping. Rename the new scripts to the original script names. Restart FreeCAD and have fun. 

Use at your own risk.

<span id="Limitations"></span>
==Limitazioni==

Current 4th-axis capable operations do not handle complex/compound rotations: those involving X and Y simultaneously.

There is currently no GUI integration of 4th-axis rotational settings in the release branch.  All related settings are in the Data tab of the Properties View section for each individual operation supported.

<span id="Usage"></span>
==Utilizzo==

=== Profile Faces ===

* Select the face(s) for the operation as normal
* Click on the [[CAM_Profile#Profile_Face_operation|CAM Profile Faces]] icon to start the operation
* Change your settings as desired
* Click OK to run the operation
* In the properties list for the new operation, change the "Enable Rotation" setting as needed for the face(s)
* Recompute the operation
* Adjust start/final depths as needed. Final depth is coded to NOT go beyond the selected face used for the profile.

=== Pocket Shape ===

* Click on the [[CAM_Pocket_Shape|CAM Pocket Shape]] icon to start the operation.
* Click the OK to create the operation - no faces selected
* Select the new Pocket_Shape operation in task window
* In the operation's Properties list, scroll to CAM section and change the "Enable Rotation" property to the desired 4th-axis setting.
* Re-compute the operation
* Double click on the same operation, to edit settings in the task window.
* Open the 'Base Geometry' tab. Select one face (preferred at the moment) and click the 'Add' button, placing that face in the Base Geometry list.
* Change the other operation settings as desired.
* Click OK to save and apply the changes.

<span id="Troubleshooting"></span>
== Risoluzione dei problemi ==

*There is an "Inverse Angle" property. You may have to toggle this to get correct paths for some of your faces.
*Set "Enable Rotation" to other than 'Off' to profile faces perpendicularly that are not normal to Z-axis.
*Toggle the "Reverse Direction" property if the path appears to be off by 180 degrees.


{{Docnav
|[[CAM_Postprocessor_Customization|Postprocessor Customization]]
|[[CAM_Preferences|Preferences]]
|[[CAM_Workbench|CAM]]
|IconL=
|IconR=
|IconC=Workbench_CAM.svg
}}

{{CAM_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}