<languages/>

{{TOCright}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Description==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The CAM Workbench contains a set of hidden commands. They are hidden by default because they are experimental. A command can be considered experimental for any of the following reasons:
* It is incomplete.
* It is bug-ridden.
* It is unstable.
* It does not produce correct, stable, safe, paths.
* It is not a standard, regularly used command in the traditional CAM workflow.
* It is mature but has not yet been moved to the standard tool list.
* ... other reasons.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Enable experimental commands==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
To access the hidden experimental commands of the CAM Workbench, the user must enable them in the [[Std_DlgParameter|Parameter Editor]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
# Open the [[Std_DlgParameter|Parameter Editor]] via {{MenuCommand|Tools → Edit Parameters...}} 
# Once in the editor the path is {{MenuCommand|BaseApp → Preferences → Mod → CAM}}
# To enable the [[CAM_Area|CAM Area]] and [[CAM_Area_Workplane|CAM Area Workplane]] commands:
#* Right-click in the parameter list area and select {{MenuCommand|New → New Boolean item}} from the context menu.
#* Name the new parameter: {{incode|EnableAdvancedOCLFeatures}} (case-sensitive).
#* Set it to: {{incode|True}}.
# To enable the other experimental commands:
#* Again select {{MenuCommand|New → New Boolean item}} from the context menu.
#* Name the new parameter: {{incode|EnableExperimentalFeatures}} (case-sensitive).
#* Set it to: {{incode|True}}.
# Save the settings.
# Restart FreeCAD.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Additional Information==
</div>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
<big>Maggiori informazioni sulle specifiche funzionalità sperimentali nelle [https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Path_experimental pagine wiki che riguardano questo argomento]   
</big>
</div>


{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
{{CAM_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Poweruser_Documentation{{#translation:}}]]