<languages/>
{{UnfinishedDocu}}

{{Docnav
|[[CAM_MillFace|MillFace]]
|[[CAM_Adaptive|Adaptive]]
|[[CAM_Workbench|CAM]]
|IconL=CAM_MillFace.svg
|IconR=CAM_Adaptive.svg
|IconC=Workbench_CAM.svg
}}

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{GuiCommand/it|Name=Path Helix|Name/it=Elica|Workbenches=[[Path Workbench/it|Path]]|MenuLocation=Path → Elica|Shortcut=|SeeAlso=}}
</div>

<span id="Description"></span>
==Descrizione==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Il comando Elica aggiunge un'operazione di interpolazione elicoidale al lavoro. Comandi G-Code dell'uscita di interpolazione dell'elica in senso orario (G2). Comandi G-Code dell'uscita in senso antiorario (G3). La percentuale di passaggio sopra specifica lo spostamento concentrico come percentuale del diametro dello strumento.
</div>

<span id="Usage"></span>
==Utilizzo==

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
* Selezionare lo strumento Helix dal Path->menu   dal pulsante GUI e premere.
* Scegli un controller Tool dalla finestra di dialogo di selezione pop-up e conferma premendo OK.
* Tutti i fori disponibili nel modello di lavoro saranno disponibili per l'elaborazione, elencati nella scheda Geometria di base. Confermare che l'elenco corrisponda ai fori destinati all'elaborazione e regolare aggiungere, abilitare o disabilitare, se necessario. I fori possono essere aggiunti selezionando le facce dei muri dei fori.
* Assicurati che le profondità, la profondità finale siano corrette, e aggiusta se non.
* Assicurarsi che Altezze, Alette di sicurezza e distanze siano corrette e regolate in caso contrario.
* Nella scheda Operazione, specificare Start From, Direction, e Step Over percentuale.
</div>

==Options==

'''Extra Offset''' adds a margin of material to be left unmachined. This is typically to allow a light finishing pass as a separate operation.

'''Start Radius''' is not available in the Helix task panel but can be edited directly in the [[Property_editor|Property editor]].

This is the radius of material remaining at the center. By default it is zero, giving a path where the tool just touches the axis of the hole. This produces a central path cutting a hole twice the size of the tool diameter.

If this parameter is set to a negative value, it can allow a smaller helix radius. For example, a negative radius equal to the tool radius will produce a zero radius helix: a.k.a. plunge cut with the endmill, should the tool be suitable. This will work as a first cut in a multi-pass operation but attempting to make a helix path with a tool the same size as the hole in the model is rejected.

==Comments==

* Step Down is not respected exactly. It is always rounded to give a complete number of turns from Start Depth to Final Depth.
* Similarly Step Over is not respected exactly. It is always rounded to give a number of equal steps.

The feedrate parameter is constant across all cuts and is based on the position of the tool's axis, thus actual feedrate of the cutting edge of the tool can vary considerably between the inner most cut and the outside surface. If the job dimensions produce a path diameter smaller than the tool diameter, this can lead to much faster cutting speeds than the feedrate given for the tool in the tool controller. This may need to considered when selecting "feed and speeds" in the toolcontroller for the job.

Also the current implementation only uses the horizontal tool speed for helix paths, even in the case where a tight spiral maybe nearly a vertical cut.

==Properties==

===Data===

Empty

===View===

Empty

==Scripting==

{{Emphasis|See also:}} [[FreeCAD_Scripting_Basics|FreeCAD Scripting Basics]].

Example:

{{Code|code=
#Place code example here.
}}


{{Docnav
|[[CAM_MillFace|MillFace]]
|[[CAM_Adaptive|Adaptive]]
|[[CAM_Workbench|CAM]]
|IconL=CAM_MillFace.svg
|IconR=CAM_Adaptive.svg
|IconC=Workbench_CAM.svg
}}

{{CAM_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}