<languages/>
Questa pagina documenta la comprensione del modulo Drawing di jcc242. Il modulo include i file e le funzioni su cui sta lavorando attualmente e non può ancora essere inserita nel ramo master. La fonte di questi file è il suo [https://github.com/jcc242/FreeCAD Github], ma fate attenzione in quanto è molto instabile!

== Base (Mod/Drawing) ==

=== gdtsvg.py ===
Script Python che genera snippet SVG per elementi come simboli gd&t, simboli di quotatura ed elementi SVG di base come linee, cerchi e percorsi.

Ha diversi file di supporto che non fanno molto. Eseguire DrawingTest.py per creare un gruppo di icone SVG nella directory delle icone che visualizza in anteprima varie icone nel file gdtsvg.py. settingslist.py, dimesettings e convert.py sono tutti deprecati dai metodi di impostazione precedenti e dovrebbero probabilmente essere rimossi man mano che il ramo Drawing si avvicina alla fusione in master. 

=== DrawingAlgos.py ===
Crea linee SVG da un elenco di vertici, supporta sia i bordi nascosti che quelli visibili. Probabilmente dovrebbe essere unito a gdtsvg.py man mano che il file matura.
 
==== createSVG ====
Accetta part come argomento, proietta la parte in linee dall'oggetto Drawing.project e poi disegna crea l'svg per ogni linea.

== App ==
Contiene il lato backend del modulo di disegno.

=== AppDrawing.cpp ===
Inizializza i vari namespaces, moduli e materiale utilizzato nel modulo di disegno. Genera un errore se non riesce a caricare il modulo Part.

=== DrawingExport.cpp ===
Due classi: SVGOutput e DXFOutput. Entrambi contengono metodi per pubblicare il codice nella rispettiva lingua. In genere richiedono un oggetto con il typedef appropriato e talvolta alcune informazioni identificative aggiuntive.

=== FeatureClip.cpp ===
Metodi di callback (?) per il clipping delle feature della la GUI, così sembrerebbe. Chiamato da solo creerà il percorso della clip, se ShowFrame.getValue è impostato su TRUE mostrerà anche il bordo della cornice.

=== FeaturePage.cpp ===
Gestisce le visualizzazioni. 

onChanged() per fare delle cose quando le proprietà vengono modificate. 

execute() per ricalcolare una feature view, o almeno così afferma. Sembra che contenga elementi per verificare la presenza di testi modificabili e salvare disegni. È necessario indagare ulteriormente.

getEditableTextsFromTemplate() per recuperare testo che può essere modificato da FreeCAD da un file SVG.

=== FeatureProjection.cpp ===
Appiattisce l'oggetto su un'immagine 2D?

=== FeatureView.cpp ===
Defines the properties for views.

=== FeatureViewAnnotation.cpp ===
Defines properties for annotations (right now just text), has an execute method to update the text if changed/moved.

=== FeatureViewPart.cpp ===
Constructor to add properties. Gets appearance stuff for projected parts.

=== PageGroup.cpp ===
Just adds a property for a list of pages, does not much else.

=== Precompiled.cppp ===
Just #include "PreCompiled.h"

=== ProjectionAlgos.cpp ===
The constructor just runs the execute() method to update it's stuff

invertY: since SVG does its y-axis backwards to every other coordinate system in the world, we must invert it when converting from a FreeCAD part to an SVG projection for the Drawing view.

getSVG: fetches the SVG code from the DrawingExport stuff. Formats depending on type of line (hidden or not and some other stuff I need to figure out).

getDXF: same as getSVG except for DXF format.


== Gui ==

=== AppDrawingGui.cpp ===
Initializes the drawing gui.

=== AppDrawingGuiPy.cpp ===
Provides opening, importing, and exporting interfaces? Looks like it is python accessible.

=== Command.cpp ===
Handles commands (from the toolbar?) such as creating new drawings and stuff. It looks like this handles QT calls from clicking the button to whatever command it needs to go to e.g. clicking the CmdDrawingOrthoViews button will show the Ortho views gui in the task dialog spot.

=== DrawingView.cpp ===
Does a bunch of qt gui stuff, need to read more on it.

=== TaskDialog.cpp ===
Creates the task dialog thing on the side and probably switches to it from the tree view, as appropriate.

=== TaskOrthoViews.cpp ===
Creates the task dialog for placing the orthographic views!

Does a lot of the calculations for where to position stuff (automatic calculations as well, it seems).

Takes the input from the TaskOrthoViews gui and does stuff with it. Uses the single inheritance method talked about [http://doc.qt.digia.com/qt/designer-using-a-ui-file.html on the qt website].

=== ViewProviderPage.cpp ===
Constructor adds some properties for the view stuff.
Destructor does nothing.
Attaches something (attaches what? attaches the view to the page?) sets and gets display modes (what are display modes? what do they do and what are possible options?)
Does something about updating some kind of data has a context menu that says "Show drawing", figure out what this means
Has a thing for double clicking to select the view (I think?)

showDrawingView seems to do some work on settings things up: gets the current document, sets the window icon and title, adds it to the main window (of FreeCAD?)

=== ViewProviderView.cpp ===
Doesn't seem to do much, though I am sure it is important.

=== Workbench.cpp ===
Adds the icons to the toolbars and stuff.

= Workflow =

== Program Flow ==
CanvasView is the actual QGraphicsScene object and DrawingView processes a list of FeatureView that are linked by reference in /App/FeatureViewPage. DrawingView then chooses the appropriate QGraphicsItem class (QGraphicsItemViewPart or QGraphicsItemViewDimension) and then calls a function in CanvasView to create this and add it to the scene.

== Adding commands to the Drawing Workbench ==
4 simple steps:
# Add a class to Command.cpp. Follow the others for an example of the formatting.
# Add a title, icon, tooltip, etc., again, follow the existing classes in command.cpp
# Add your class to the bottom of Command.cpp
# Add your information to Workbench.cpp, this will tell FreeCAD/Drawing module where to place the icons defined in command.cpp  in the actual freecad interface (the toolbars, dropdowns, etc.)

[[Category:Developer_Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
{{Drawing Tools navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{clear}}