<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

{{Fake heading|sub=4|< Back to [[FreeCAD Howto Import Export]]}}  

<span id="Why_is_it_hard_to_support_DWG_Files_in_FreeCAD?"></span>
==Perché è difficile supportare i file DWG in FreeCAD?==

Il formato DWG è un formato di file binario closed source non direttamente supportato da FreeCAD. Richiede un convertitore di file esterno di terze parti per convertire i file DWG in file DXF e viceversa.

<span id="What_do_I_need_to_be_able_to_import_DWG_files?"></span>
==Cosa mi serve per poter importare i file DWG?==

===LibreDWG===

* homepage: https://www.gnu.org/software/libredwg/
* licenza: [https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/libredwg/ GPLv3-or-later]
* facoltativo, utilizzato per abilitare l'importazione e l'esportazione di file DWG

GNU LibreDWG è una libreria C libera per la gestione dei file DWG. Il suo obiettivo è quello di sostituire gratuitamente le librerie Open Design Alliance Drawings SDK. Si prega di notare che, poiché libreDWG è un work in progress, non supporta alcune entità DWG.

==== Installation Windows ====

Downloading and unzip the appropriate [https://github.com/LibreDWG/libredwg/releases pre-compiled Windows binary]. Place the executable in the OS search path, {{Incode|os.getenv("PATH")}}, for automatic detection ({{Version|0.21}}), or set the path manually. See [[Import_Export_Preferences#DWG|Import Export Preferences]].

==== Installation Linux/Unix systems ====

{{Code|lang=shell|code=
git clone --recurse-submodules https://git.savannah.gnu.org/git/libredwg.git
cd libredwg
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
make install # or use checkinstall, or simply locate & copy the dwg2dxf 
             # utility to your executables path, it will be then autodetected by FreeCAD
}}

Place the executable in the OS search path, {{Incode|os.getenv("PATH")}}, for automatic detection ({{Version|0.21}}), or set the path manually. See [[Import_Export_Preferences#DWG|Import Export Preferences]].

==== Installation openSUSE ====

To prevent problems you must use LibreDWG package compiled for the installed openSUSE OS distribution. 
LibreDWG is typically installed with '''YAST''' (abbr. Yet another Setup Tool), the Linux operating system's setup and configuration tool. 

The more experienced user first gets an overview of possible packages provided.
'''Note:''' openSUSE has several options to choose from when downloading LibreDWG. 
To view these options, visit [https://software.opensuse.org/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&baseproject=ALL&q=libredwg Survey of provided LibreDWG packages on openSUSE]. 

For e.g. Intel or AMD 64-bit desktops, laptops, and servers the (x86_64) release is the one to select. So '''libredwg0''' and '''libredwg-tools''' are of the right choice to install. 

It is recommended to grab the binary packages directly. Then select the correct distribution for your installed openSUSE OS.

In any terminal/console (root rights required) the installation will be carried out with:

{{Code|code=
zypper install libredwg0 libredwg-tools
}}

Place the executable in the OS search path, {{Incode|os.getenv("PATH")}}, for automatic detection ({{Version|0.21}}), or set the path manually. See [[Import_Export_Preferences#DWG|Import Export Preferences]].

<span id="ODA_File_Converter"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
===ODA Converter (anteriormente Teigha Converter)===
* homepage: https://www.opendesign.com/guestfiles/oda_file_converter
* licenza: freeware
* optional, usato per abilitare l'importazione e l'esportazione dei file  DWG
</div>

* homepage: https://www.opendesign.com/guestfiles/oda_file_converter
* license: freeware
* optional, used to enable import and export of DWG files

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
Il convertitore ODA è una piccola utility liberamente disponibile che consente di convertire tra diverse versioni i file DWG e DXF. FreeCAD può usarlo per offrire l'importazione e l'esportazione dei file DWG, convertendo prima i formati DWG in DXF al suo interno, e poi importando il contenuto dei file tramite il suo importatore DXF standard. Si applicano le restrizioni di [[Draft_DXF/it|importazione di DXF]].
</div>

<span id="Installation"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
=== Installazione ===

Su tutte le piattaforme, basta installare il pacchetto appropriato da https://www.opendesign.com/guestfiles/oda_file_converter. Se, dopo l'installazione, l'utility non viene trovata automaticamente da FreeCAD, può essere necessario impostare manualmente il percorso del file eseguibile del converter. Attivare l'ambiente Draft, poi nelle opzioni del menu Modifica → Preferenze → Draft → Importa/Esporta → DWG inserire il percorso per l'eseguibile Teigha File Converter.
</div>

If the utility is not found automatically by FreeCAD after installation, you need to set the path to the executable manually. See [[Import_Export_Preferences#DWG|Import Export Preferences]].

=== QCAD pro ===

{{Version|0.20}}

* homepage: https://qcad.org/en/qcad-command-line-tools#dwg2dwg
* license: commercial
* optional, used to enable import and export of DWG files

QCAD is a well-known open-source DXF-based 2D CAD platform. It also offers a paid pro version, which is basically the open-source version plus support for the DWG format. When buying the pro version, QCAD also includes a DWG to DXF conversion utility that can be used by FreeCAD.

====Installation====

If the utility is not found automatically by FreeCAD after installation ({{Version|0.21}}), you need to set the path to the bash file (Linux and macOS) or batch file (Windows) manually. See [[Import_Export_Preferences#DWG|Import Export Preferences]].

=== CADExchanger Workbench ===

Installing the CADExchanger Workbench allows for working with DWG files through integration with the paid commercial file converter product [https://cadexchanger.com/ CADExchanger]. Just follow the instructions in the [https://github.com/yorikvanhavre/CADExchanger GitHub repository]. You can discuss this workbench on [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=22227&p=462421 its forum thread].

At the moment, the CADExchanger way is the only one that allows to work with 3D DWG files, by converting them to other 3D formats.

<span id="What_are_the_alternatives?"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
== Quali sono le alternative? ==
</div>

<span id="DoubleCAD_XT"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
===DoubleCAD XT===
C'è anche DoubleCAD XT (https://www.turbocad.com/content/doublecad-xt-v5).
Il programma è gratuito per uso personale e commerciale.
Si richiede una iscrizione gratuita per ricevere il codice di attivazione via e-mail.
Questo programma è solo per Windows. Nota: non sembra essere stato aggiornato per anni.
</div>

There is also DoubleCAD XT (https://www.turbocad.com/content/doublecad-xt-v5). The program is free for personal and commercial use. It requires a free sign-up to receive an activation code via E-Mail. This Program is windows-only. Note: it does not seem to have been updated for years.

===NanoCAD 5.0===

There is also nanoCAD 5.0 (https://nanocad.com/products/nanoCAD/download/). The program is free for personal and commercial use. It requires a free sign-up to receive an activation code via E-Mail. This Program is windows-only.

<span id="Export_your_AutoCAD_files_in_friendly_format"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
===Esportare i file di AutoCAD in Formati Amichevoli===
Esportare i file di AutoCAD in un formato più ''amichevole'' a FreeCAD, come DXF R12 o R14, SVG, e se la versione lo supporta, IGES. Tutti questi formati sono delle alternative migliori al formato DWG quando si utilizza FreeCAD.
</div>

Exporting your AutoCAD files in a more FreeCAD friendly format, like DXF R12 or R14, SVG, and if version supports it, IGES. All are better alternatives to the DWG format when using FreeCAD. 

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
È importante sapere che, contrariamente alla credenza popolare, non vi è alcuna differenza tra il contenuto di un file salvato in formato DWG o DXF, a condizione che sia la stessa versione (es. DWG 2014 o DXF 2014). Entrambi i formati sono mantenuti da Autodesk, ed entrambi supportano esattamente le stesse caratteristiche. La differenza è che DWG è chiuso (codice-macchina), mentre DXF è aperto.
</div>

<span id="What_can_I_do_to_help?"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
==Cosa posso fare per dare un aiuto? ==
</div>

<span id="Promote_the_use_of_alternative_formats"></span>
<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
===Promuovere l'uso dei formati alternativi===
In poche parole, smettere di accettare il lavoro svolto in formato DWG. Nella pratica, spesso questo è più facile a dirsi che a farsi. Tuttavia, per gli utenti e i sostenitori di FreeCAD non sarebbe una cattiva pratica quella di evitare e respingere il formato DWG, quando possibile.
</div>

Simply put, stop accepting work done in DWG format. In practice, this is often easier said than done. Still, it would not be bad practice for users and supporters of FreeCAD to avoid and reject the DWG format whenever possible.

===Use the LibreDWG library and file bug reports===

In development version as mentioned above you can switch from the proprietary ODA Converter to the free software LibreDWG library for DWG (and DXF) files. Please do this and report any problems you encounter.


{{Draft Tools navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:File_Formats{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Common Questions{{#translation:}}]]