FreeCAD is a free and open-source [[parametric_modeling|parametric]] 3D [[CAD|computer-aided design]] (CAD) modeler, licensed under the [[LGPL|LGPLv2+]] license. It is primarily made for mechanical engineering design, but also serves a wide range of uses wherever you need to model 3D objects with precision and control over modeling history.

FreeCAD has been under development since 2002, with the project founded by Jürgen Riegel, Werner Mayer, and Yorik van Havre. The current stable version is '''1.1.x''' (released March 2026), with active development towards version 1.2. FreeCAD runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux, and is available in over 20 languages.

FreeCAD features a modern, comprehensive [[Workbenches|workbench-based]] interface built on the Qt framework. Its core geometry engine is powered by [[Open_CASCADE|Open CASCADE Technology]] (OCCT), which provides robust support for [[B-rep|Boundary Representation]] (BRep), [[NURBS|Non-uniform rational basis spline]] (NURBS) curves and surfaces, complex boolean operations, and native support for industry-standard formats like [[STEP|STEP]] and [[IGES|IGES]].

Unlike many commercial CAD packages, FreeCAD is completely free — both as in "free speech" and "free beer". Its development is driven by a global community of volunteers and supported by the FreeCAD Project Association (FPA). The source code is hosted on [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD GitHub].

=== Key Capabilities ===

* '''Parametric Modeling:''' All objects in FreeCAD are natively parametric. Their shapes can be driven by [[Property|properties]], formulas via the [[Expressions|expressions engine]], or even depend on other objects. Changes propagate automatically through the model tree.

* '''Assembly Workbench:''' Since version 1.0 (November 2024), FreeCAD includes a built-in [[Assembly_Workbench|Assembly Workbench]] based on the Ondsel Solver, allowing 3D constraints between parts, assembly of components, and animation.

* '''Sketcher:''' The [[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher]] provides a state-of-the-art 2D constraint-based sketching environment that serves as the foundation for most part design workflows.

* '''Part Design:''' The [[PartDesign_Workbench|PartDesign Workbench]] enables a feature-based modeling workflow (pads, pockets, revolutions, grooves, fillets, chamfers, etc.).

* '''BIM:''' The [[BIM_Workbench|BIM Workbench]] (merged from the former Arch and BIM workbenches in version 1.0) provides full [[Building_Information_Modeling|Building Information Modeling]] capabilities with [[IFC|IFC]] compatibility.

* '''CAM:''' The [[CAM_Workbench|CAM Workbench]] (formerly Path Workbench) generates machine instructions ([[G-code|G-code]]) for [[CNC|CNC]] machining, 3D printing, and other computer-aided manufacturing operations.

* '''TechDraw:''' The [[TechDraw_Workbench|TechDraw Workbench]] creates production-ready 2D technical drawings from 3D models, with support for dimensions, section views, detail views, and more.

* '''FEM:''' The [[FEM_Workbench|FEM Workbench]] performs [[Finite_Element_Method|Finite Element Method]] (FEM) analysis using integrated solvers such as CalculiX, Elmer, and Z88.

* '''Import/Export:''' FreeCAD supports a wide range of file formats including STEP, IGES, OBJ, STL, DXF, DWG, SVG, DAE, IFC, OFF, NASTRAN, VRML, and OpenSCAD CSG, in addition to its native [[FCStd|FCStd]] format.

FreeCAD has a large and active community. Help and support can be found on the [https://forum.freecad.org FreeCAD Forum], [https://discord.com/invite/w2cTKGzccC Discord], and [https://www.reddit.com/r/FreeCAD Reddit]. The project welcomes contributions of all kinds — code, documentation, translations, and financial support through the [https://fpa.freecad.org FreeCAD Project Association].

{{Docnav
|[[Main_Page|Main Page]]
|[[Feature_list|Feature list]]
}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:User Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
