<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:4-->
{{Docnav
|[[BIM_Copy|Copy]]
|[[Arch_Add|Add]]
|[[BIM_Workbench|BIM]]
|IconL=BIM_Copy.svg
|IconR=Arch_Add.svg
|IconC=Workbench_BIM.svg
}}

<!--T:1-->
{{GuiCommand
|Name=BIM Clone
|MenuLocation=Modify → Clone
|Workbenches=[[BIM_Workbench|BIM]]
|SeeAlso=[[Draft_Clone|Draft Clone]]
}}

==Description== <!--T:2-->

<!--T:3-->
The '''BIM Clone''' tool is a shortcut to the standard [[Draft_Clone|Draft Clone]] tool, but launches a [[Draft_Move|Draft Move]] command just after cloning, thus allowing you to clone and place the cloned object somewhere else in the model in one go.

A clone is an object that has its geometry linked to the original object, thus it's dependent on the physical shape of the original. This is a one-way dependency: the clone is tied to the original's shape. But the rest of the clone's properties (e.g. placement) are independent and can be modified.

==Properties==

A cloned BIM object is of the same type as the original object. The vast majority of BIM objects are derived from [[Arch_Component|Arch Component]], thus a clone shares the common properties and behaviors of all [[Arch_Component|Arch Components]].

When creating such a clone, '''most properties will not be copied over to the clone''', except for the following ones, which are copied as a one-off and after creation are independent from the original object:

* {{PropertyData|Description}}
* {{PropertyData|IfcType}}
* {{PropertyData|Material}}
* {{PropertyData|Subvolume}}
* {{PropertyData|Tag}}
* And the view properties that define the appearance of the object.

'''Properties that define the shape''' of the original BIM object are linked to it and '''are effectively read-only for the clone'''. E.g. the {{PropertyData|Length}} of a wall.

===Data===

{{TitleProperty|Component}}

* {{PropertyData|Clone Of|Link}}: this property is specific to clones of BIM objects, and it will point to the original object. See the [[Arch_Component|Arch Components]] property documentation for more detail.


<!--T:5-->
{{Docnav
|[[BIM_Copy|Copy]]
|[[Arch_Add|Add]]
|[[BIM_Workbench|BIM]]
|IconL=BIM_Copy.svg
|IconR=Arch_Add.svg
|IconC=Workbench_BIM.svg
}}

</translate>
{{BIM_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}