<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:1-->
{{Docnav
|[[BIM_Project|Project]]
|[[BIM_Views|Views]]
|[[BIM_Workbench|BIM]]
|IconL=BIM_Project.svg
|IconR=BIM_Views.svg
|IconC=Workbench_BIM.svg
}}

<!--T:2-->
{{GuiCommand
|Name=BIM Nudge
|MenuLocation=Utils → Nudge → …
|Workbenches=[[BIM_Workbench|BIM]]
|SeeAlso=[[Draft_Move|Draft Move]]
}}

== Description == <!--T:3-->

<!--T:4-->
The '''BIM Nudge''' tools are a set of tools that incrementally move, rotate, or change the height of selected objects. For the rotation a fixed value of 45° is used. The other operations use a nudge distance.

<!--T:5-->
The nudge distance can be set to a fixed value or to ''Auto'' mode, which automatically scales the nudge distance based on the current [[3D_View|3D View]] zoom level.

== Usage == <!--T:6-->

<!--T:7-->
# Select one or more objects (not for Nudge Switch).
# Use any of the keyboard shortcuts listed below.

== Nudge tools == <!--T:8-->

<!--T:9-->
''The shortcuts are for version 26.3.''

<!--T:10-->
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Tool !! Shortcut !! Description
|-
| Nudge Switch || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|/}} || Switches the nudge mode between ''Auto'' and fixed distance
|-
| Nudge Up || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|'}} || Moves the selection up on the working plane
|-
| Nudge Down || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|;}} || Moves the selection down on the working plane
|-
| Nudge Left || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|[}} || Moves the selection left on the working plane
|-
| Nudge Right || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|]}} || Moves the selection right on the working plane
|-
| Nudge Rotate Left || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|,}} || Rotates the selection counterclockwise
|-
| Nudge Rotate Right || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|.}} || Rotates the selection clockwise
|-
| Nudge Extend || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|PgUp}} || Increases the height of objects in the selection
|-
| Nudge Shrink || {{KEY|Alt}}+{{KEY|PgDown}} || Decreases the height of objects in the selection
|}

== Nudge distance == <!--T:11-->

<!--T:12-->
The nudge distance is displayed in the BIM [[Status_Bar|Status Bar]] at the bottom of the FreeCAD window. You can:

<!--T:13-->
* Click the nudge value to change it manually.
* Enter a custom value in the current unit system.
* Set it to ''Auto'' to automatically scale based on the zoom level.

== Notes == <!--T:14-->

<!--T:15-->
* The center of rotation for the rotate tools is the center of the overall bounding box of the selected objects. The rotation axis is parallel to the Z-axis of the working plane.
* The extend and shrink tools only change objects that have a {{PropertyData|Height}} property.


<!--T:16-->
{{Docnav
|[[BIM_Project|Project]]
|[[BIM_Views|Views]]
|[[BIM_Workbench|BIM]]
|IconL=BIM_Project.svg
|IconR=BIM_Views.svg
|IconC=Workbench_BIM.svg
}}

</translate>
{{BIM_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}