<languages/>
{{UnfinishedDocu{{#translation:}}}}
<translate>

<!--T:20-->
{{Docnav
|[[CAM_Postprocessor_Customization|Postprocessor Customization]]
|[[CAM_Preferences|Preferences]]
|[[CAM_Workbench|CAM]]
|IconL=
|IconR=
|IconC=Workbench_CAM.svg
}}

</translate>
{{TOCright}}
<translate>

==Description== <!--T:1-->

<!--T:2-->
These experimental features allow milling of four axis [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=36773 faces] and [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=35867 pockets]

<!--T:3-->
These features are in early development. Bugs may exist. Thank you for your feedback and testing.

== Installation == <!--T:4-->

<!--T:5-->
Ideally, upgrade to version 0.19.16502, or higher.

<!--T:6-->
Download these scripts:

<!--T:7-->
* PathProfileFaces.py [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=36773 available here] and
* PathAreaOp.py is [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=35867 here]
* PathPocketShape.py from [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=35867 here too] (for pocket operations)

<!--T:8-->
Place them in your FreeCAD/Mod/CAM/PathScripts directory, *after* renaming your originals for safe keeping. Rename the new scripts to the original script names. Restart FreeCAD and have fun. 

<!--T:9-->
Use at your own risk.

== Limitations == <!--T:10-->

<!--T:11-->
Current 4th-axis capable operations do not handle complex/compound rotations: those involving X and Y simultaneously.

<!--T:12-->
There is currently no GUI integration of 4th-axis rotational settings in the release branch.  All related settings are in the Data tab of the Properties View section for each individual operation supported.

==Usage== <!--T:13-->

=== Profile Faces === <!--T:14-->

<!--T:15-->
* Select the face(s) for the operation as normal
* Click on the [[CAM_Profile#Profile_Face_operation|CAM Profile Faces]] icon to start the operation
* Change your settings as desired
* Click OK to run the operation
* In the properties list for the new operation, change the "Enable Rotation" setting as needed for the face(s)
* Recompute the operation
* Adjust start/final depths as needed. Final depth is coded to NOT go beyond the selected face used for the profile.

=== Pocket Shape === <!--T:16-->

<!--T:17-->
* Click on the [[CAM_Pocket_Shape|CAM Pocket Shape]] icon to start the operation.
* Click the OK to create the operation - no faces selected
* Select the new Pocket_Shape operation in task window
* In the operation's Properties list, scroll to CAM section and change the "Enable Rotation" property to the desired 4th-axis setting.
* Re-compute the operation
* Double click on the same operation, to edit settings in the task window.
* Open the 'Base Geometry' tab. Select one face (preferred at the moment) and click the 'Add' button, placing that face in the Base Geometry list.
* Change the other operation settings as desired.
* Click OK to save and apply the changes.

== Troubleshooting == <!--T:18-->

<!--T:19-->
*There is an "Inverse Angle" property. You may have to toggle this to get correct paths for some of your faces.
*Set "Enable Rotation" to other than 'Off' to profile faces perpendicularly that are not normal to Z-axis.
*Toggle the "Reverse Direction" property if the path appears to be off by 180 degrees.


<!--T:21-->
{{Docnav
|[[CAM_Postprocessor_Customization|Postprocessor Customization]]
|[[CAM_Preferences|Preferences]]
|[[CAM_Workbench|CAM]]
|IconL=
|IconR=
|IconC=Workbench_CAM.svg
}}

</translate>
{{CAM_Tools_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}