
'''FreeCAD – Engineering 3D Design Prompt (Academic Research):'''

Create a detailed and clear 3D engineering model using FreeCAD for an academic research project titled:

'''“Design of a Sand-Based Thermal Heat Exchanger System Using Buried Copper Pipes.”'''

The model should include the following elements with accurate proportions and parametric dimensions:

'''1. Insulated Wooden Box:'''

* Rectangular     box with dimensions '''2 m (length) × 2 m (width) × 1 m (height)'''.
* Wooden     outer structure with an internal insulation layer.
* The     box should be filled with sand.

'''2. Sand Layer:'''

* Homogeneous     sand volume inside the box.
* Indicate     the sand level clearly.

'''3. Copper Pipe Heat Exchanger:'''

* Total     pipe length: '''30 meters'''.
* Material:     copper.
* Pipes     arranged in a '''coiled (serpentine) configuration'''.
* Pipes     buried at a depth of '''50 cm from the top surface of the sand'''.
* Pipes     fully embedded inside the sand volume.

'''4. Hydraulic Circuit (Closed Loop):'''

* Inlet     and outlet copper pipes exiting the box.
* Connection     to an external '''water storage tank'''.
* Include     a '''circulation pump''' connected to form a closed-loop system.

'''5. Measurement Instruments:'''

* Temperature     sensor at the '''pipe inlet'''.
* Temperature     sensor at the '''pipe outlet'''.
* Flow     meter installed on the pipe to measure water flow rate.

'''6. Visualization Requirements:'''

* Use     simple colors to distinguish materials (wood, sand, copper, water     circuit).
* Include     a '''sectional cut view''' to clearly show buried pipes inside the sand.
* Label     all main components (box, sand, pipes, pump, tank, sensors).
* Ensure     the design is clean, technical, and suitable for inclusion in a scientific     research paper.

'''7. Units and Standards:'''

* Units:     meters (m).
* Scale:     realistic (1:1).
* Purpose:     scientific visualization and engineering analysis (not aesthetic     rendering).