<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:15-->
{{Docnav
|[[Testing|Testing]]
|[[Continuous_Integration|Continuous Integration]]
}}

</translate>
{{TOCright}}
<translate>

==Overview== <!--T:1-->
The '''FreeCAD build tool''' or '''fcbt''' is a python script located at
</translate>
{{Code|code=
trunc/src/Tools/fcbt.py
}}
<translate>
<!--T:2-->
It can be used to simplify some frequent tasks in building, distributing and extending FreeCAD.

== Usage == <!--T:3-->
With [[wikipedia:Python (programming language)|Python]] correctly installed, ''fcbt'' can be invoked by the command
</translate>
{{Code|code=
python fbct.py
}}
<translate>
<!--T:4-->
It displays a menu, where you can select the task you want to use it for:
</translate>
{{Code|code=
FreeCAD Build Tool
 Usage:
    fcbt <command name> [command parameter]
 possible commands are:
  - DistSrc         (DS)   Build a source Distr. of the current source tree
  - DistBin         (DB)   Build a binary Distr. of the current source tree
  - DistSetup       (DI)   Build a Setup Distr. of the current source tree
  - DistSetup       (DUI)  Build a User Setup Distr. of the current source tree
  - DistAll         (DA)   Run all three above modules
  - NextBuildNumber (NBN)  Increase the Build Number of this Version
  - CreateModule    (CM)   Insert a new FreeCAD Module (Workbench) in the module directory
 
 For help on the modules type:
   fcbt <command name> ?
}}
<translate>
<!--T:5-->
At the input prompt enter the abbreviated command you want to call. For example type "CM" for [[Workbench_creation|creating a module]].

=== DistSrc === <!--T:6-->
The command "DS" '''creates a source distribution''' of the current source tree.

=== DistBin === <!--T:7-->
The command "DB" '''creates a binary distribution''' of the current source tree.

=== DistSetup === <!--T:8-->
The command "DI" '''creates a setup distribution''' of the current source tree.

=== DistSetup === <!--T:9-->
The command "DUI" '''creates a user setup distribution''' of the current source tree.

=== DistAll === <!--T:10-->
The command "DA" executes "DS", "DB" and "DI" in sequence.

=== NextBuildNumber === <!--T:11-->
The "NBN" command '''increments the build number''' to create a new release version of FreeCAD.

=== CreateModule === <!--T:12-->
The "CM" command [[Workbench_creation|creates a new application module (Workbench)]].


<!--T:13-->
{{Docnav
|[[Testing|Testing]]
|[[Continuous_Integration|Continuous Integration]]
}}

</translate>
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
{{clear}}