FreeCAD started participating to the Google student coding program (GSoC) in 2016. We participated through a combined effort of many CAx projects, under the BRL-CAD umbrella. Since 2023, we are applying as our own organization.

* Main page of the program: https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/
* Timeline: https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline
* FreeCAD in GSoC 2025: To be announced

== How it works ==

* The student writes a project proposal for FreeCAD, and uploads it the GSoC platform.
* Students can choose to work on their own idea, or they can pick an idea suggested by the FreeCAD mentors team. There is no difference in how your project is reviewed or accepted, the important part is to work on something you like.
* Proposals will be reviewed, evaluated, and ranked by FreeCAD mentors.
* Google allocates a certain number of slots to each participating organization. Slots are allocated following the ranking order given by the project mentors.
* If you are accepted, You will have two FreeCAD mentors assigned to you. there is a first period allocated to get to know FreeCAD, the community and your mentors, then the real coding period starts. Your work get reviewed at mid-term and at the end.

If you want to get involved, '''study well the [[GSoC Checklist]]'''. Whether you're applying or accepted, we've itemized everything you need to do in this list. We're here to help you become new open source developers, so don't be shy if you have any questions.

== Writing your proposal ==

We are proposing a number of project ideas here. But you are in no way forced to follow our ideas. You can propose anything you would like to work on, that you thing would be an interesting project. Good places to hunt for ideas are the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AFeature list of feature requests], the [https://forum.freecad.org FreeCAD forum] or other FreeCAD communities, like [https://www.facebook.com/FreeCAD Facebook], [https://discord.com/invite/w2cTKGzccC Discord] or [https://www.reddit.com/r/freecad Reddit].

You will find many templates and models on the internet, and on the [https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/ Google Summer of Code website], but it does not need to be very elaborate. Again, what is important is that you choose a subject you like. It's more important to get interested in your idea and do some research about how you would achieve it than writing very long proposals.

What we expect to see in your proposal is what is explained on the [https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/ Google Summer of Code website]. Additionally, we want to see that you did your research, and that you explored FreeCAD enough so we can trust you know what you are going into.

== The Selection Process ==

GSoC is about getting people involved and contributing to open source over the long-term. As such, we heavily weight our application selection process towards students that are interested in remaining involved in FreeCAD and open source software development after GSoC has ended. GSoC is not a summer job, although it happens during the Northern hemisphere summer months and requires some dedication and commitment, like a job.

Additionally, submissions are ranked based on perception of the submitter's abilities to complete the task within the program time frame, general consensus on the technical approach being proposed, and overall interest in having such modifications made to FreeCAD. Particular notice is made of students that are responsive to questions and readily interactive with the FreeCAD community, mainly through the [https://forum.freecad.org FreeCAD forum]. Communication is a great thing. Having a forum account already, and having already discussed your idea there, for example under the [https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=46&sid=c47dc0459f8be0c52e072a8de66c8738 GSOC section], is a great way to have people interested in your project.

Just about every GSoC organization receives considerably more project proposals than can be accepted. Every application gets read multiple times and reviewed in detail. Of those applications, only a small subset are selected so keep in mind that the selection process is rather competitive.

Whether or not you are accepted, contributing to open source outside of GSoC is one of the main goals of the program and is the best way to be noticed and get your proposal accepted. Keep that in mind. Thanks for your interest and we look forward to working with new FreeCAD developers!

And in case your proposal is not accepted but you would still like to work on it, nothing prevents that! Several FreeCAD GSoC students in the past have worked on their project outside the GSoC program.

== Possible Mentors ==

The pool of mentors will review all the proposals, each member will mark the proposals they want to mentor, and each winning proposal will get the mentors that marked their interest. There is no need for you to choose a mentor yourself before starting. If you would like to get reviewing and mentorship before starting, look for the mentors from previous years in the [https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=46 GSoC section of the FreeCAD forum], or simply post something in that section to ask for review.

== Implementation Ideas ==

There are several sources for project ideas. The table below lists existing project ideas already picked by the FreeCAD developers. FreeCAD also previously participated in an umbrella organization for GSoC, and there are [https://github.com/opencax/GSoC/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+FreeCAD FreeCAD project ideas available in their GSoC repo]. Additionally, there is a [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=84897 forum thread] calling for additional ideas which may be the basis of a project.

The ideas listed here or in the OpenCAx repo serve mostly as inspiration, and do not have a higher chance of being accepted as project proposal. You are totally free to build your own idea, specially for students with an established involvement in FreeCAD who have already contributed code. Feel free to contact us on the [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=84897 forum] for further discussions about the listed projects.

The size column shows the estimated time frame to complete the project, but you are of course free to suggest otherwise if you see arguments for it. Clicking on each idea will get you to its corresponding GitHub issue, which will contain more details and where you can ask questions.

{| class="wikitable"
! style="text-align:left;"| Topic
! Language/Technology/FreeCAD module
! Size
! Difficulty
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/19576 Create a 2D nesting tool]
|C++/Python, CAM/BIM, OpenCasCade
|350h
|Medium/Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/19485 Create fillets between 2 arcs in Sketcher]
|C++, Sketcher
|175h
|Medium/Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/19552 Allow to place windows and doors with different insertion points]
|Python, Qt, BIM, Coin3D, OpenCasCade
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/19442 Improve FreeCAD Hidden Line Removal]
|C++, OpenCasCade, Part, TechDraw
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/19171 Improve API of the user preferences system]
|C++, Preferences, User Interface
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/17749 Design a finer way to copy/paste object attributes]
|C++/Python, BIM, Part, Addons, User Interface
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/17185 Diagnose and explore solutions to performance issues with large files]
|C++, Core, Performance, User Interface
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/16099 Implement Draft Analysis in Part Design]
|C++, Part Design
|350h/175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13918 TechDraw: Export layered PDF File format]
|C++, PDF, TechDraw
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13724 Support radius/diameter,  also for cylindrical surfaces in measurement tools]
|C++, Measurement
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13719 Measure inertia with material and coordinate system in measurement tools]
|C++, Measurement
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13717 Add attachment support to annotation labels]
|C++, Core
|175h
|Easy
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13708 Add snapping to measurements / picking points]
|C++, Measurement
|175h/350h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/13599 Unify DXF importers and exporters]
|C++/Python, DXF, Draft, Import
|350h
|Medium/Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12944 Allow adding text to the sketcher]
|C++, Sketcher, Qt
|350h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12843 Export 3D PDF File format]
|C++, Core, PDF
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12820 Use only selected parts of a sketch / Features with different profiles of a master sketch]
|C++, Sketcher, Core
|175h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12547 Improve the FreeCAD API documentation]
|C++/Python, Doxygen
|175h
|Easy
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12534 Compare multiple parts / bodies (CAD versions and 3D Scan to Original CAD Model)]
|C++, OpenCasCade, Part
|175h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12454 Assembly: Possibility to Inspect the Assembly]
|C++, Assembly, Part
|175h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11918 Sketcher: Improve Dimension between Circle/Arc (Distance Constraints)]
|C++, Sketcher
|175h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11914 Edit multiple documents at a time (AKA make tabs independent editors)]
|C++, Core
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11166 Improvement of Light Sources Preferences: Appearance,  Multiple Lights in the Scene,  Background Illumination]
|C++, Coin 3D, User Inteface
|350h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/10538 PartDesign: Design a good way to create walls / thin extrusions / ribs]
|C++, Part Design
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/10308 Implement selection order priority]
|C++, Coin, User Interface
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/10055 Sketcher: Implement automatic projection of external geometry for dimensions]
|C++, Sketcher
|180h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/9278 Design a compatibility system for different Assembly Workbenches]
|C++/Python, Assembly
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/8588 On-machine inspection for CAM]
|C++/Python, CAM
|180h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/8560 Advanced FreeCAD test system]
|C++/Python, Core
|350h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/8559 FEM: Extend Z88 Solver]
|C++/Python, FEM, Z99
|350h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/8558 Upgrade the documentation system]
|C++/Python, Doxygen, Mediawiki, Markdown
|350h
|Easy
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/8557 FreeCAD ↔ BRLCAD integration]
|C++, BRL-CAD, OpenCasCade, Core
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/6204 Design a set of interactive controls in the 3D view for tools that have numeric values/inputs (drag to edit)]
|C++, Coin, Core, User Interface
|350h
|Hard
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/5764 Direct modeling tools]
|C++/Python, BIM, Core
|350h
|Medium
|-

|[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/5607 Integrate a client for the buildingSMART Data Dictionary web service]
|Python, BIM
|175h
|Easy
|-


|}

Note also that any issue open on the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues FreeCAD issues tracker] could become a good GSoC proposal. Don't hesitate to browse the issues, the list above is formed from the ones [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/labels/GSoC marked as GSoC issues]. The ones [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AFeature marked as "Feature"] are feature requests and might be especially interesting to you.

The ones marked as [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/labels/Good%20first%20issue good first issue] are identified as interesting for new contributors. If any of them picks your brain, feel free to discuss it, either directly on the issue itself, or on the [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=84897 forum thread].

== Schedule ==

See https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline

== Previous GSOCs == 

* [[Google Summer of Code 2024]]
* [[Google Summer of Code 2023]]
* [[Google Summer of Code 2022]]
* [[Google Summer of Code 2020]]
* [[Google Summer of Code 2019]]
* [[Google Summer of Code 2018]]
* [[Google Summer of Code 2017]]

[[Category:Google Summer of Code]]