<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:18-->
{{Docnav
|[[Installing_on_Linux|Installing on Linux]]
|[[Installing_additional_components|Installing additional components]]
}}

<!--T:1-->
FreeCAD can be installed on macOS from a .dmg package which you can drag and drop into your Applications folder, see the [[Download|Download]] page.

<!--T:29-->
If you would like to download a development version, which may be unstable, see the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Bundle/releases/tag/weekly-builds Weekly builds download] page.

<!--T:23-->
You can also use a package manager such as HomeBrew to keep your software updated. Instructions to install HomeBrew can be seen [https://brew.sh/ here]. When HomeBrew installed you can simply install FreeCAD through your bash terminal with 

</translate>
{{Code|code=
brew install --cask freecad
}}
<translate>

<!--T:24-->
and to use  the latest version available on HomeBrew you may run

</translate>
{{Code|code=
brew install freecad
}}
<translate>

<!--T:25-->
If there are any issues with the HomeBrew Cask or Formula you may report them to [https://github.com/FreeCAD/homebrew-freecad here]. 

<!--T:16-->
This page describes the usage and features of the FreeCAD installer. It also includes uninstallation instructions. Head to [[Getting_started|Getting started]] once installation is complete.

1

== Uninstallation == <!--T:7-->

<!--T:8-->
There currently isn't an uninstaller for FreeCAD installed with dmg package. To completely remove FreeCAD and all installed components, drag the following  files and folders to the Trash:

<!--T:9-->
*In the Applications directory:
**/Applications/FreeCAD.app
*In the Users Home Library directory
**$HOME/Library/Application Support/FreeCAD
**$HOME/Library/Preferences/FreeCAD
**$HOME/Library/Preferences/com.freecad.FreeCAD.plist
**$HOME/Library/Preferences/freecad.plist
**$HOME/Library/Caches/FreeCAD

<!--T:12-->
If you installed FreeCAD with homebrew, then use the {{incode|brew uninstall freecad}} command to uninstall /Applications/FreeCAD.app. The related files and directories in the user home Library will still need to be removed manually.


<!--T:13-->
{{Docnav
|[[Installing_on_Linux|Installing on Linux]]
|[[Installing_additional_components|Installing additional components]]
}}

</translate>
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}