<languages/>
{{TOCright}}
<translate>

== Introduction == <!--T:13-->

<!--T:14-->
Since v0.17 it is easy to add [[external_workbenches|external workbenches]] by using the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]]. A regular user doesn't need to do more than use this tool.

<!--T:15-->
Keep reading for more information regarding installation of workbenches.

== General description == <!--T:1-->

<!--T:2-->
Workbenches are nothing more than collections of files that are placed in a folder. This folder is usually compressed into a zip archive. On installation, this folder is simply uncompressed and copied to

</translate>
{{Code|code=
$ROOT_DIR/Mod/
}}
<translate>

<!--T:10-->
where {{incode|$ROOT_DIR}} is a top level directory searched by FreeCAD on startup. This is essentially what the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]] does.

<!--T:11-->
The {{incode|Mod/}} directories are scanned every time FreeCAD is started, and the available workbenches are automatically added.

== Installing system-wide == <!--T:3-->

<!--T:16-->
Workbenches installed in this way will be available to all users. Depending on your system, you might need administrator privileges to access the installation directory.

<!--T:4-->
Copy the workbench folder into {{incode|$INSTALL_DIR/Mod/}}, where {{incode|$INSTALL_DIR}} is the FreeCAD installation directory.
* On Linux it is usually {{incode|/usr/share/freecad/Mod/}}
* On Windows it is usually {{incode|C:\Program Files\FreeCAD\Mod\}}
* On macOS it is usually {{incode|/Applications/FreeCAD/Mod/}}

== Installing for a single user == <!--T:5-->

<!--T:17-->
Workbenches installed in this way will be available only to one user, but will not require any administrator privileges.

<!--T:6-->
Copy the workbench folder into {{incode|$USER_DIR/Mod/}}, where {{incode|$USER_DIR}} is the FreeCAD directory for a particular {{incode|username}} (you can find the latter by typing {{incode|App.getUserAppDataDir()}} in the [[Python_console|Python console]]).
* On Linux it is usually {{incode|/home/username/.local/share/FreeCAD/Mod/}}
* On Windows it is {{incode|%APPDATA%\FreeCAD\Mod\}}, which is usually {{incode|C:\Users\username\Appdata\Roaming\FreeCAD\Mod\}}
* On macOS it is usually {{incode|/Users/username/Library/Application Support/FreeCAD/Mod/}}.

== Additional information == <!--T:9-->

<!--T:7-->
Additional information on how to create a custom workbench can be found in the [[Power users hub|Power users hub]] and the [[Developer hub|Developer hub]].

<!--T:12-->
See also a detailed description in the page [[How_to_install_additional_workbenches|how to install additional workbenches]].


</translate>
{{Powerdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]