<languages>polski</languages>
<translate>

<!--T:1-->
{{Docnav
|[[Installing_on_Windows|Installing on Windows]]
|[[Installing_on_Mac|Installing on Mac]]
}}

</translate>
{{TOCright}}
<translate>

==Overview== <!--T:2-->

<!--T:3-->
The installation of FreeCAD on most well-known Linux systems is endorsed by the community, and FreeCAD is available via the package manager on those systems. The FreeCAD team also provides some:
* "Official" packages when new releases are made available via [[Ubuntu_Snap|Snap packages]], [[AppImage|AppImages]], [[Flatpak|Flatpaks]] and the [[#Stable_PPA_version|PPA]]
* Experimental or "bleeding edge" builds available via [[#Development_PPA_.28Daily.29|PPA]] daily repository, [[AppImage|AppImages]], [[Ubuntu_Snap|Ubuntu Snaps]].

</translate>
<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
<translate>

==Ubuntu and Ubuntu-based systems== <!--T:4--> 

<!--T:5-->
Many Linux distributions are based on Ubuntu and share its repositories. Besides official variants (Kubuntu, Lubuntu and Xubuntu), there are non official derivatives like Linux Mint, Voyager and others. The installation options below (''Expand'') should be compatible with these systems.
</translate>
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
<translate>
=== Official version === <!--T:6-->

<!--T:7-->
FreeCAD is available from the Ubuntu Universe repository, and can be installed via the {{MenuCommand|Software Center}} or from the terminal:

</translate>
{{Code|code=
sudo snap install freecad
}}
<translate>

<!--T:8-->
{{Emphasis|Note:}} the Ubuntu Universe package may be outdated as the packaging may lag behind the latest stable source code. In this case, it is suggested to install the package from the {{incode|-stable}} PPA below. In addition, installing the {{incode|-daily}} package can be done to test the development branch.

=== Stable PPA version === <!--T:9-->

<!--T:93-->
'''Warning:''' The FreeCAD PPA is currently unmaintained and [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=42&t=69055&start=20 looking for volunteers]. Please use an alternative (snap, appimage) until the issue is fixed!

<!--T:10-->
Personal Package Archive (PPA) for the stable FreeCAD release is maintained by the FreeCAD community on Launchpad. The Launchpad repository is called [https://launchpad.net/~freecad-maintainers/+archive/freecad-stable FreeCAD Stable Releases] .

==== GUI ==== <!--T:11-->

<!--T:12-->
Install the stable PPA via the Graphical User Interface (GUI):

<!--T:13-->
:1. Navigate to {{MenuCommand|Ubuntu Software → Software & Updates → Software Sources → Other Software}}
:2. Click on {{Button|Add}}, then copy and paste the following line
</translate>
::{{Code|code=
ppa:freecad-maintainers/freecad-stable
}}
<translate>

<!--T:14-->
:3. Add the source, close the dialog, and reload your software sources, if asked.

<!--T:15-->
Now you can find and install the last stable FreeCAD version from the {{MenuCommand|Ubuntu Software Center}}.

==== CLI ==== <!--T:16--> 

<!--T:17-->
Install the stable PPA via the Command Line Interface (CLI):

<!--T:18-->
:1. Add the PPA to your software sources:
</translate>
::{{Code|code=
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:freecad-maintainers/freecad-stable
}}
<translate>

<!--T:19-->
:2. Retrieve the updated package lists:
</translate>
::{{Code|code=
sudo apt update
}}
<translate>

<!--T:20-->
:3. Then install FreeCAD along with its offline documentation:
</translate>
::{{Code|code=
sudo apt install freecad freecad-doc
}}
<translate>

<!--T:21-->
{{Emphasis|Note:}} due to packaging problems, in certain versions of Ubuntu the {{incode|freecad-doc}} package has collided with the installation of FreeCAD or one of its dependencies; if this is the case, remove the {{incode|freecad-doc}} package, and only install the {{incode|freecad}} package. If the {{incode|freecad-doc}} package doesn't exist, then ignore it.

==== Checking Installation ==== <!--T:22-->

<!--T:23-->
:4. Once you have the stable PPA added to your sources using one of the above methods, the {{incode|freecad}} package will install this PPA version over the one provided by the Ubuntu Universe repository. You can see the available versions with the following {{incode|apt-cache}} command:
</translate>
:{{Code|code=
apt-cache policy freecad
}}
<translate>

<!--T:24-->
:The output should look similar to the following (of course the version info will vary): 
</translate>
{{Code|code=
freecad:
  Installed: (none)
  Candidate: 2:0.18.4+dfsg1~201911060029~ubuntu18.04.1
  Version table:
     2:0.18.4+dfsg1~201911060029~ubuntu18.04.1 500
        500 http://ppa.launchpad.net/freecad-maintainers/freecad-stable/ubuntu bionic/main amd64 Packages
     0.16.6712+dfsg1-1ubuntu2 500
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic/universe amd64 Packages
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ apt-cache policy freecad-doc
}}
<translate>

<!--T:25-->
:5. Invoke the stable (PPA) version of FreeCAD from the GUI or CLI. The latter method is as follows:
</translate>
:{{Code|code=
./freecad
}}
<translate>

=== Development PPA (Daily) === <!--T:26-->

<!--T:27-->
As FreeCAD is in constant development, you may wish to install the {{Emphasis|daily}} package to keep with the latest improvements and bug fixes. The repository is also hosted on Launchpad and is called [https://launchpad.net/~freecad-maintainers/+archive/freecad-daily freecad-daily].

<!--T:28-->
This version is compiled daily from the official master repository. Please beware that although it will contain new features and bug fixes, it may also have newer bugs, and be unstable.

<!--T:29-->
Add the daily PPA to your software sources, update the package lists, and install the daily package:
</translate>
{{Code|code=
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:freecad-maintainers/freecad-daily
sudo apt update
sudo apt install freecad-daily
}}
<translate>

<!--T:30-->
Every day you can update to the latest daily:
</translate>
{{Code|code=
sudo apt update
sudo apt install freecad-daily
}}
<translate>

<!--T:31-->
{{Emphasis|Note:}} in some cases new code or dependencies added to FreeCAD will cause packaging errors; if this happens, a daily package may not be generated until the maintainers manually fix the problems. If you wish to continue testing the latest code, you should get the source code and compile FreeCAD directly; for instructions see [[compiling|compiling]].

<!--T:32-->
Run the daily (PPA) version of FreeCAD:
</translate>
:{{Code|code=
freecad-daily
}}
<translate>

<!--T:33-->
{{Emphasis|Note:}} it is possible to install both the {{incode|-stable}} and {{incode|-daily}} packages in the same system. This is useful if you wish to work with a stable version, and still be able to test the latest features in development. Notice that the executable for the daily version is {{incode|freecad-daily}}, but for the stable version it is just {{incode|freecad}}.
</translate>
</div> <!--END of UBUNTU collapsible div. Do not remove.--> 
</div> <!--END of UBUNTU collapsible div. Do not remove.-->
<translate>

==Debian and other Debian-based systems== <!--T:34-->

<!--T:35-->
Since Debian Lenny, FreeCAD is available directly from the Debian software repositories and can be installed via synaptic or simply with:

</translate>
{{Code|code=
sudo apt install freecad
}}
<translate>
</translate>
<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
<translate>

==OpenSUSE== <!--T:36-->

<!--T:37-->
FreeCAD is typically installed with YAST (abbr. Yet another Setup Tool) the Linux operating system setup and configuration tool, or in any terminal/console (root rights required) with:

</translate>
:{{Code|code=
zypper install FreeCAD
}}
<translate>

<!--T:38-->
{{Emphasis|Note:}} This procedure only covers the installation of officially released '''stable''' FreeCAD program versions, depending on the installed links to the program package repositories of your OS version. The openSUSE package ''may be outdated'' as the packaging may lag behind the latest stable source code. In this case, it is suggested to install the package manually from the below indicated (''Expand'') source repositories.
</translate>
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
<translate>

<!--T:90-->
A vast release program for FreeCAD package builds are offered. Please visit for a survey:

<!--T:91-->
'''[https://software.opensuse.org/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&baseproject=ALL&q=FreeCAD Survey of repositories on openSUSE]'''

<!--T:92-->
Generally for selecting the correct openSUSE distribution needed it is necessary to click on the particular {{KEY|View}} button.

=== Stable === <!--T:39-->

<!--T:40-->
The stable package version: [https://software.opensuse.org/package/FreeCAD Stable repositories on openSUSE]. The correct openSUSE distribution version must be selected in the lower part of the web page.

<!--T:41-->
Note: openSUSE has several options to choose from when downloading FreeCAD. To view these options, visit [https://software.opensuse.org/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&baseproject=ALL&q=FreeCAD Survey of stable repositories on openSUSE]. 

=== Development === <!--T:42-->

<!--T:43-->
Latest development releases AKA {{Emphasis|unstable}}: [https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=science%3Aunstable&package=FreeCAD Unstable repositories listings on openSUSE]

<!--T:44-->
It is recommended to grab the binary packages directly. Then select the correct distribution for your installed openSUSE OS.
</translate>
</div> <!-- END of OpenSUSE collapsible div section. Do not remove! -->
</div> <!-- END of OpenSUSE collapsible div section. Do not remove! -->
<translate>

==Gentoo== <!--T:45-->

<!--T:46-->
FreeCAD can be built/installed simply by issuing:

</translate>
{{Code|code=
emerge freecad
}}
<translate>
</translate>
<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
<translate>

==Fedora== <!--T:47-->

<!--T:48-->
The FreeCAD package was been present in Fedora between F20 and F38 releases. But currently there's no official Fedora package, as it was removed in F39 due to [https://pagure.io/fesco/issue/3080 various difficulties of packaging its dependencies].

<!--T:96-->
Currently available options are (also see below):
* AppImage - download from FreeCAD's Github releases page
* Flatpak - {{Incode|org.freecad.FreeCAD}}
* @freecad/nightly COPR

</translate>
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
<translate>

<!--T:52-->
Current versions can be obtained by downloading one of the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/releases/ .AppImage] releases from the github repository. These work fine on Fedora.

<!--T:54-->
If you want to keep up with the absolute latest daily builds, FreeCAD is also available on </translate>[https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/groups/g/freecad/coprs/ copr]<translate>
<!--T:55-->
. To install the build from there, in a terminal session, enter:

</translate>
{{Code|lang=bash|code=
sudo dnf copr enable @freecad/nightly
sudo dnf install freecad
}}
<translate>

<!--T:56-->
That leaves the </translate>copr<translate> 
<!--T:57-->
repository active, so

</translate>
{{Code|lang=bash|code=
sudo dnf upgrade
}}
<translate>

<!--T:58-->
or equivalent, will update to the latest FreeCAD build, along with updates from any of the other active repos. If you want something a bit more stable, you can disable </translate>@freecad/nightly<translate>  <!--T:59--> again after the initial install. The </translate>copr<translate> 
<!--T:60-->
repository only keeps builds from the past 2 weeks. This is not a solution if you want to pick a specific older version.

<!--T:61-->
Instructions are also available on [[Compile_on_Linux|compile FreeCAD yourself]], including a script specifically for Fedora. With a minor change, to checkout the specific commit from git, any version since about FreeCAD 0.15 can be built on any distribution since Fedora 21.

</translate>
</div> <!-- END of Fedora collapsible div section. Do not remove! -->
</div> <!-- END of Fedora collapsible div section. Do not remove! -->
<translate>

==Arch== <!--T:62--> 

<!--T:63-->
Installing FreeCAD on Arch Linux and derivatives (ex. Manjaro):

</translate>
{{Code|code=
sudo pacman -S freecad
}}
<translate>

==Other== <!--T:64--> 

<!--T:65-->
If you find out that your system features FreeCAD but is not documented in this page, please tell us on the [https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=21 forum]!

<!--T:66-->
Many alternative, non-official FreeCAD packages are available on the net, for example for systems like slackware or fedora. A search on the net can quickly give you some results.

===Installing on other Linux/Unix systems=== <!--T:72--> 

<!--T:73-->
Many common Linux distros now include a precompiled FreeCAD as part of the standard packages. This is often out of date, but is a place to start. Check the standard package managers for your system. One of the following (partial) list of commands could install the official version of FreeCAD for your distro from the terminal. These probably need administrator privileges.

</translate>
{{Code|code=
apt install freecad
dnf install freecad
emerge freecad
slackpkg install freecad
yum install freecad
zypper install freecad
pacman -Sy freecad
}}
<translate>

<!--T:74-->
The package name is case sensitive, so try `FreeCAD` as well as `freecad`. If that does not work for you, either because your package manager does not have a precompiled FreeCAD version available, or because the available version is too old for your needs, you can try installing the [[Flatpak|Flatpak]] or [[Ubuntu_Snap|Snap]] packages (these work on most x86_64 Linux distributions) or try downloading one of the </translate>[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/releases/ .AppImage]<translate> 
<!--T:75-->
releases from the github repository. These also tend to work on most x86_64 Linux distributions, without any special installation. Just make sure the downloaded file is marked as executable, then run it.

<!--T:76-->
If that still is not good enough, and you cannot locate another source of a precompiled package for your situation, you will need to [[Compile_on_Linux|compile FreeCAD yourself]].

== Next Step == <!--T:79--> 

<!--T:80-->
Head to [[Getting_started|Getting started]] once installation is complete.


<!--T:81-->
{{Docnav
|[[Installing_on_Windows|Installing on Windows]]
|[[Installing_on_Mac|Installing on Mac]]
}}

</translate>
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Common Questions{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]