{{VeryImportantMessage|Cycles Renderer was added by Yorik in 2019! Please check out the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render FreeCAD-Render WB]}}
== Outline ==  

[https://www.blender.org/manual/render/cycles/ Cycles] is [http://www.blender.org Blender]'s new realistic renderer. Cycles has also been made [https://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Dev:Source/Render/Cycles/Standalone standalone], and several other 3D modelers such as Rhino and Cinema4D are beginning to use it too.

As the [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench]] of FreeCAD is already made to support several render engines, it is fairly easy to add a new one.

== Details ==

# Get familiar with the Cycles render engine as used in Blender. You might need to learn to use Blender, as it is the primary tool to use Cycles.
# Learn how to build Cycles on the different platforms. As the standalone version of Cycles is not yet as popular as Blender itself, precompiled packages are not available
# Learn the XML API of Cycles, how data can be passed to the renderer
# Create basic functionality in FreeCAD to create such XML files
# Create a new render object by adapting the luxrender object

== Expected outcome ==

# A new available renderer added to the [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench]]

== Future Possibilities ==

Since direct modeling is a huge area in constant evolution, the work done in this GSoC will only cover a small part of it. But if the bases are done right, extending them will be easy and could develop very far.

== Project Properties ==

=== Skills ===

    Programming language C++
    Good understanding and use of APIs from FreeCAD and Cycles
    Knowledge of 3D modeling, topology and computational geometry is a plus

=== Difficulty ===

Medium

== Additional Information ==


[[Category:Google Summer of Code]]