<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:1-->
{{Macro
|Name=Geneva Wheel GUI
|Icon=Geneva_wheel_gui.svg
|Description=This macro creates the main parts of a Geneva Wheel Mechanism with parametric values using a GUI dialog.
|Author=Isaac Ayala (drei), Mark Stephen (quick61)
|Version=1.0
|Date=2014-01-01
|Download=[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/GenevaWheelGUI.py Source]
|FCVersion=All
}}

== Description == <!--T:2-->

<!--T:3-->
This macro creates the main parts of a Geneva Wheel Mechanism with parametric values. A Geneva drive is a gear mechanism that translates continuous rotation motion into intermittent rotary motion. The mechanism is commonly used in watchmaking, film projectors, and indexing tables.

The macro provides a GUI dialog where the user can specify the following parameters:
* Drive Crank Radius (a) - Radius of the drive crank
* Drive Pin Radius (p) - Radius of the drive pin
* Geneva Wheel Tolerance (t) - Tolerance for the Geneva wheel slots
* Geneva Wheel Height (h) - Height (thickness) of the Geneva wheel
* Driven Slot Quantity (n) - Number of slots in the Geneva wheel (typically 4, 6, or 8)

== How To Use == <!--T:4-->

<!--T:5-->
# Copy the macro file GenevaWheelGUI.py to your FreeCAD Macro directory.
# Run the macro from the Execute Macro dialog or assign it to a toolbar button.
# A dialog window will appear asking for the parametric values.
# Enter the desired values and click OK.
# The Geneva wheel mechanism components will be created in your active document.

<!--T:6-->
The macro creates three components:
* The drive crank with its base
* The Geneva wheel with its slots
* The stop disc

== Notes == <!--T:7-->

<!--T:8-->
* The distance between centers (c) is automatically calculated from the drive crank radius and the number of slots.
* The macro uses the Part module for solid modeling.
* All dimensions are in millimeters by default.

</translate>