{{Macro
|Name=Fabrication Cutlist
|Description=Generates a CSV cutlist from Part Workbench Box and Cylinder primitives for fabrication projects using rectangular stock and round bar.
|Author=Johan Pretorius
|Version=2024.8.10
|Date=2024-08-28
|Download=[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ImportExport/FabricationCutlist.FCMacro Source]
|FCVersion=All
}}

== Description ==

This macro generates a cutlist for fabrication projects where parts are made from rectangular tubing, round bar, or angle iron. It reads all {{incode|Part::Box}} and {{incode|Part::Cylinder}} objects in the active document and outputs a CSV-formatted cutlist to the Report View.

For Box objects, the macro sorts the three dimensions (Length, Width, Height) and outputs them from smallest to largest: the smallest and middle values represent the profile dimensions, and the largest represents the cut length. For Cylinder objects, it reports the diameter (2 * Radius) and height. Objects must have a non-empty {{incode|Label2}} to be included in the cutlist; the macro uses Label2 to indicate the material profile (e.g., "roundbar", "squaretube").

== How To Use ==

# Model your fabrication design using {{incode|Part::Box}} primitives for square/rectangular stock and {{incode|Part::Cylinder}} primitives for round bar.
# Set the {{incode|Label}} of each part to indicate its role in the design (e.g., "top_rail", "leg").
# Set the {{incode|Label2}} of each part to indicate the profile type (e.g., "25x25_square", "16mm_round").
# Run the macro from {{MenuCommand|Macro -> Macros... -> FabricationCutlist}}.
# The CSV cutlist appears in the Report View ({{MenuCommand|View -> Panels -> Report View}}).

== Output Format ==

The output is a CSV with these columns:

|| Column || Description ||
| Timestamp | Can be discarded |
| Label | Part label (role in design) |
| Label2 | Profile type |
| Dim1 | Smallest dimension of the profile (for cylinders: diameter) |
| Dim2 | Middle dimension of the profile (for cylinders: blank) |
| Length | Largest dimension = cut length (for cylinders: height) |

For Box objects, the three dimensions are sorted ascending, so Dim1 < Dim2 < Length. For Cylinder objects, Dim1 is the diameter and Length is the height; Dim2 is blank.

Objects without a Label2 value are skipped with a warning. Objects that are neither Box nor Cylinder are also skipped with a warning.

== Limitations ==

* Only {{incode|Part::Box}} and {{incode|Part::Cylinder}} objects are considered.
* Each object must have a non-empty {{incode|Label2}} field.
* Box dimensions are sorted ascending; the macro does not distinguish between profile dimensions and length dimensions beyond sorting by size.
* Angle iron is not directly supported, but can be modeled as a Box with appropriate dimensions.

== Source ==

* Source code: [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ImportExport/FabricationCutlist.FCMacro FabricationCutlist.FCMacro]
* Author: Johan Pretorius
* License: AAL
