<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:1-->
{{Macro
|Name=Honeycomb Solid
|Icon=HoneycombSolid.xpm
|Description=Creates parametric honeycomb solid structures for lightweight and high-strength designs.
|Author=Christian Gonzalez Di Antonio
|Version=1.2.0
|Date=2021-01-01
|Download=[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ParametricObjectCreation/HoneycombSolid.FCMacro Source]
|FCVersion=All
}}

== Description == <!--T:2-->

<!--T:3-->
This macro creates honeycomb solid structures commonly used in engineering for lightweight yet strong designs. Honeycomb structures are found in aerospace panels, structural cores, heat exchangers, and packaging materials.

The macro generates a parametric honeycomb pattern that can be customized with:
* Outer Radius - Overall dimensions of the honeycomb block
* Cell Size - Size of individual hexagonal cells
* Wall Thickness - Thickness of the honeycomb walls
* Height - Height of the honeycomb structure

== How To Use == <!--T:4-->

<!--T:5-->
# Copy the macro files to your FreeCAD Macro directory.
# Run the macro from the Execute Macro dialog.
# A dialog will appear with parameters for the honeycomb structure.
# Adjust the parameters to your needs.
# Click OK to create the honeycomb solid in your active document.

== Applications == <!--T:6-->

<!--T:7-->
* Aerospace - Lightweight structural panels and cores
* Automotive - Crash-absorbing structures and interior panels
* Architecture - Decorative panels and acoustic insulation
* 3D Printing - Infill patterns for reduced material usage
* Heat Exchangers - High surface area for thermal transfer

== Notes == <!--T:8-->

<!--T:9-->
* The macro uses the Part module for boolean operations.
* Large cell counts may take some time to generate.
* The honeycomb pattern is based on a regular hexagonal tiling.

== Links == <!--T:10-->

<!--T:11-->
* [https://github.com/christiangda/FreeCAD-macros-HoneycombSolid GitHub repository]
* [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/issues/ Issue tracker]

</translate>