{{Macro
|Name=BSpline3D
|Description=Creates a parametric BSpline curve from vertices selected in the 3D view, with expression-linked control points that update when source geometry changes.
|Author=Eric Price (CorvusCorax)
|Version=0.0.2
|Date=2024-11-22
|Download=[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ObjectCreation/BSpline3D.FCMacro Source]
|FCVersion=FreeCAD >= v0.20
}}

== Description ==

This macro creates a parametric BSpline curve by selecting vertices in the 3D view. Unlike manually placing control points, this macro uses FreeCAD expression bindings to link the BSpline control points to the selected vertices. When the source geometry moves, the BSpline automatically updates.

If a selected object is not a Vertex, the macro uses its CenterOfGravity instead and prints a warning. The macro correctly handles subelements that are part of assemblies or bodies with nested placements.

== How To Use ==

# Select two or more vertices (or edges/faces, which will use their CenterOfGravity) in the 3D view.
# Run the macro from {{MenuCommand|Macro → Macros... → BSpline3D}}.
# A BSpline curve will be created connecting the selected points.
# The control points are expression-linked, so moving the source vertices updates the curve.

== Technical Details ==

* The macro uses {{incode|Draft.make_bspline()}} to create the curve.
* Control point positions are bound via {{incode|setExpression('Points', ...)}} to reference the source geometry.
* For objects inside Bodies or Assemblies, the macro constructs the full placement chain (e.g., {{incode|Body.Placement * Face.Placement}}) so the BSpline tracks correctly regardless of nesting depth.
* Non-vertex selections produce a console warning and fall back to {{incode|Shape.CenterOfGravity}}.

== Source ==

* Source code: [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ObjectCreation/BSpline3D.FCMacro BSpline3D.FCMacro]
* Author: [https://github.com/CorvusCorax CorvusCorax]
* Issues: [https://github.com/CorvusCorax/FreeCAD-BSpline3D/issues BSpline3D issues]
* License: LGPL-2.1-or-later
