{{Macro
|Name=Geodesic Dome
|Description=Creates parametric geodesic dome structures with configurable frequency and radius.
|Author=Ulrich Brammer
|Version=1.0.0
|Date=2019-03-23
|Download=[https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ParametricObjectCreation/GeodesicDome.FCMacro Source]
|FCVersion=All
}}

== Description ==

This macro creates geodesic dome structures, which are spherical structures based on a network of great circles (geodesics) subdividing an icosahedron. Geodesic domes are used in architecture, engineering, and design for their structural efficiency and aesthetic appeal.

The macro provides a dialog for specifying dome parameters and generates a parametric object that can be modified after creation.

== How To Use ==

# Copy {{FileName|GeodesicDome.FCMacro}} and the {{FileName|geodesic_dome/}} folder from the FreeCAD-macros repository (under {{FileName|ParametricObjectCreation/}}) to your FreeCAD Macro directory.
# Run the macro from {{MenuCommand|Macro -> Macros... -> GeodesicDome}}.
# A dialog will appear where you can set the dome parameters (radius and frequency).
# Click OK to create the geodesic dome in your active document.

== Technical Details ==

* The macro is structured as a module ({{FileName|geodesic_dome/geodesic_dome.py}}) that can be imported independently, supporting save-restore of parametric objects.
* When run as a macro, it first imports the {{incode|GeodesicDome}} class to register the parametric feature, then calls {{incode|showDialog()}} to show the configuration dialog.
* The dome geometry is generated by {{incode|makeDomeShape(domeRad, ny)}} which subdivides an icosahedron. The parameter {{incode|ny}} is the frequency (number of subdivisions per icosahedron edge). All vertices are projected onto a sphere of the specified radius.
* The parametric object survives save-reload cycles because the macro registers itself as a FreeCAD feature Python object via the GeodesicDome class import.

== Source ==

* Source code: [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ParametricObjectCreation/GeodesicDome.FCMacro GeodesicDome.FCMacro]
* Module: [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros/blob/master/ParametricObjectCreation/geodesic_dome/geodesic_dome.py geodesic_dome.py]
* Author: Ulrich Brammer
* License: LGPL-2.0-or-later
