<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:1-->
{{Macro
|Name=CSV2Objects
|Icon=CSV2Objects.png
|Description=Generate large batches of 3D text objects from CSV files, mapped to sketch guide lines.
|Author=DasLukas
|Version=0.1.0
|Date=2026-01-04
|FreeCADVersion=0.21
|Downloads=CSV2Objects.FCMacro
|SeeAlso=
|License=MIT
}}

== Description == <!--T:2-->

<!--T:3-->
'''CSV2Objects''' generates large batches of 3D objects with text driven by CSV files.
It uses horizontal guide lines in a sketch to position text, creates ShapeStrings,
extrudes them, and optionally fuses the result with a target solid. It supports batch
export to STL, 3MF, and STEP.

== Installation == <!--T:4-->

<!--T:5-->
You can install the macro in several ways:

<!--T:6-->
* Via the '''Addon Manager''' (Macros tab) once this macro is indexed.
* Manually by downloading the macro file from GitHub:

</translate>
{{Codeextralink|https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DasLukas/CSV2Objects/refs/heads/main/CSV2Objects.FCMacro}}
<translate>

<!--T:7-->
[https://github.com/DasLukas/CSV2Objects/raw/main/CSV2Objects.FCMacro CSV2Objects.FCMacro]

<!--T:8-->
and copying it into your FreeCAD macro directory.

== Usage == <!--T:9-->

<!--T:10-->
# Open a document with a sketch containing horizontal guide lines, and optionally a target solid.
# Run the macro '''CSV2Objects.FCMacro''' from the Macro menu.
# In the task panel, choose a CSV file, encoding and delimiter.
# Scan guide lines and assign CSV columns to each active line.
# Choose a font, extrusion height, boolean mode and export format (STL/3MF/STEP).
# Use the live preview to adjust your settings.
# Press '''OK''' to generate and export the geometry for all CSV rows.
# Press '''Cancel''' to clear preview objects and close the dialog.

== Macro code == <!--T:11-->

<!--T:12-->
The complete macro code is hosted on GitHub:

<!--T:13-->
* [https://github.com/DasLukas/CSV2Objects/raw/main/CSV2Objects.FCMacro CSV2Objects.FCMacro]


</translate>