<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:1-->
{{VeryImportantMessage|The development of POV-Ray seems to be halted. The latest stable version is 3.7.0.8 (2018-05-27), the latest development version is 3.8.0-x (2019-02-19), the [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/ official project on GitHub] has been edited the last time on 2019-03-08. Please remove this warning if the situation changes}}

=Description= <!--T:38-->

<!--T:2-->
POV-Ray (The Persistence of Vision Raytracer) is one of the two renderers supported by the [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing workbench]] together with [[LuxRender|LuxRender]]. It is also supported by the new [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render Render Workbench], together with [[LuxCoreRender|LuxCoreRender]], Appleseed, Blender Cycles and Intel Ospray Studio (experimental).

=Installation= <!--T:39-->

==Raytracing Workbench== <!--T:40-->

<!--T:3-->
{{VeryImportantMessage|The [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing workbench]] is being superseded by the new [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render Render Workbench], which is intended as its replacement. The Render Workbench can be installed through the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]]. The information here is provided because by default FreeCAD is still shipped (as of 0.19-24276) with the Raytracing Workbench}}

===Stable Version=== <!--T:41-->

<!--T:4-->
The latest stable version of POV-Ray to be provided with binaries is 3.7.0.0 (2013-11-06), the first to be free software, released under the AGPL3 (or later). The latest stable version of POV-Ray, released only as source code is 3.7.0.8 (2018-05-27).

====Linux==== <!--T:42-->

<!--T:5-->
'''''Compiled binaries'''''

<!--T:6-->
If your distribution has it in the official repositories, you can install POV-Ray and all the relative dependencies through the package manager. Such distributions include: [https://archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/povray/ Arch Linux], [https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=povray Debian], [https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/media-gfx/povray Gentoo], [https://software.opensuse.org/package/povray openSUSE], [https://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=povray Ubuntu].

<!--T:7-->
'''''Compiling from source'''''

<!--T:8-->
If your distributions does not have POV-Ray in the repositories, or you wish to, it is possible to compile POV-Ray from source. [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.7.0.8.tar.gz Download the source code of POV-Ray 3.7.0.8 from GitHub].

<!--T:9-->
'''''Configuring FreeCAD'''''

<!--T:10-->
After installing POV-Ray, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Available_Workbenches|load the Raytracing Workbench]], and go to the [[Raytracing_Preferences|Raytracing Preferences]].

<!--T:11-->
Set the POV-Ray executable path to point to your installation of POV-Ray, usually it is ''/usr/bin/povray'', and apply.

====macOS==== <!--T:12-->

<!--T:13-->
There is no official binary of POV-Ray 3.7 or newer for macOS, if you want to compile it from source, probably you are on your own.

<!--T:14-->
The [http://www.povray.org/redirect/www.povray.org/ftp/pub/povray/Old-Versions/Official-3.62/Macintosh/povpmac.zip most recent available binaries] are of the old closed source POV-Ray 3.6x.

====Windows==== <!--T:15-->

<!--T:16-->
The latest stable version of POV-Ray to have compiled Windows binaries is POV-Ray 3.7.0.0. [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/releases/download/v3.7.0.0/povwin-3.7-agpl3-setup.exe Download it from GitHub], launch the installer and follow the proposed steps.

<!--T:17-->
By default the destination folder is ''C:\Program Files\POV-Ray\v3.7'', with documents and scenes in ''C:\Users\{your user}\Documents\POV-Ray\v3.7''.

<!--T:18-->
After installing POV-Ray, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Unloaded_Workbenches|load the Raytracing Workbench]], and go to the [[Raytracing_Preferences|Raytracing Preferences]].

<!--T:19-->
Set the POV-Ray executable path to point to your installation of POV-Ray, usually it is ''C:/Program Files/POV-Ray/v3.7/bin/pvengine64.exe'', and apply.

<!--T:20-->
Then, before trying to render something, start POV-Ray separately and [https://wiki.povray.org/content/Documentation:Windows_Section_2.1 set I/O restrictions according to POV-Ray documentation], otherwise rendering will not work properly (or will not work at all).

===Development Version=== <!--T:43-->

<!--T:21-->
Development seems to be halted, nonethless the latest experimental builds and source code are available. As it is experimental, you are adviced against using it in production environments.

====Linux==== <!--T:44-->

<!--T:22-->
There are no official POV-Ray development binaries, you should compile it from source. The latest release of the official development branch is [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.8.0-alpha.10064268.tar.gz POV-Ray v3.8.0-alpha.10064268].

<!--T:23-->
The latest development releases (not part of the official development branch) are [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.8.0-x.freetype.3.tar.gz POV-Ray v3.8.0-x.freetype.3] and [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.8.0-x.10064738.tar.gz POV-Ray v3.8.0-x.10064738]. 

====macOS==== <!--T:45-->

<!--T:24-->
There hasn't been a macOS build of POV-Ray since the closed source 3.6x version. You can try to compile it from source, but be advised that it might not even be possible.

<!--T:25-->
The latest release of the official development branch is [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.8.0-alpha.10064268.zip POV-Ray v3.8.0-alpha.10064268].

<!--T:26-->
The latest development releases (not part of the official development branch) are [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.8.0-x.freetype.3.zip POV-Ray v3.8.0-x.freetype.3] and [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/archive/refs/tags/v3.8.0-x.10064738.zip POV-Ray v3.8.0-x.10064738]. 

====Windows==== <!--T:46-->

<!--T:27-->
First of all you need to install POV-Ray 3.7, see [[POV-Ray#Windows|the install instructions for the stable version]]. Then open POV-Ray install directory, by default ''C:\Program Files\POV-Ray\v3.7'', and in the ''bin'' subdirectory rename the POV-Ray executable, so that you do not replace it. For example rename it to BAK-pvengine64.exe.

<!--T:28-->
Then download the development build of POV-Ray you want to use. The latest release of the official development branch is [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/releases/download/v3.8.0-alpha.10064268/povray-3.8.0-alpha.10064268-av691-Win64.7z POV-Ray v3.8.0-alpha.10064268-av69].

<!--T:29-->
The latest development releases (not part of the official development branch) are [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/releases/download/v3.8.0-x.freetype.3/povray-3.8.0-x.freetype.3-av693-Win64.7z POV-Ray v3.8.0-x.freetype.3-av693] and [https://github.com/POV-Ray/povray/releases/download/v3.8.0-x.10064738/povray-3.8.0-x.10064738-av694-Win64.7z POV-Ray v3.8.0-x.10064738-av694].

<!--T:30-->
Extract the downloaded archive (if you don't have a suitable software use [https://www.7-zip.org/ 7-Zip]) and copy the POV-Ray executable in the ''bin'' folder of your POV-Ray 3.7 installation.

==Render Workbench== <!--T:47-->

<!--T:31-->
As of now there are no significant differences between the Raytracing Workbench and the Render Workbench in the part regarding the installation of the external software, so refer to the [[POV-Ray#Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench section]] to install POV-Ray and to this section for the Render Workbench configuration..

<!--T:32-->
First of all install the Render Workbench through the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]] and restart FreeCAD.

====Linux==== <!--T:48-->

<!--T:33-->
After installing the Render Workbench and POV-Ray, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Available_Workbenches|load the Render Workbench]], and go to the Render Preferences.

<!--T:34-->
Set the POV-Ray executable path to point to your installation of POV-Ray, usually it is ''/usr/bin/povray'', and apply.

====Windows==== <!--T:49-->

<!--T:35-->
After installing the Render Workbench and POV-Ray, launch FreeCAD, open the [[Preferences_Editor|Preferences Editor]], [[Preferences_Editor#Available_Workbenches|load the Render Workbench]], and go to the Render Preferences.

<!--T:36-->
Set the POV-Ray executable path to point to your installation of POV-Ray, usually it is ''C:/Program Files/POV-Ray/v3.7/bin/pvengine64.exe'', and apply.

<!--T:37-->
Then, before trying to render something, start POV-Ray separately and [https://wiki.povray.org/content/Documentation:Windows_Section_2.1 set I/O restrictions according to POV-Ray documentation], otherwise rendering will not work properly (or will not work at all).

</translate>