<languages/>
{{TOCright}}
<translate>

== Description == <!--T:26-->

<!--T:27-->
[https://www.python.org Python] is a general purpose, high level programming language that is very commonly used in large applications to automate some tasks by creating scripts or [[macros|macros]].

<!--T:28-->
In FreeCAD, Python code can be used to create various elements programmatically, without needing to click on the graphical user interface. Additionally, many tools and workbenches of FreeCAD are programmed in Python.

<!--T:29-->
See [[Introduction to Python|Introduction to Python]] to learn about the Python programming language, and then [[Python scripting tutorial|Python scripting tutorial]] and [[FreeCAD Scripting Basics|FreeCAD Scripting Basics]] to start scripting in FreeCAD.

== Readability == <!--T:44-->

<!--T:30-->
Readability of Python code is one of the most important aspects of this language. Using a clear and consistent style within the Python community facilitates contributions by different developers, as most experienced Python programmers expect the code to be formatted in a certain way and to follow certain rules. When writing Python code, it is advisable to follow [https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/ PEP8: Style Guide for Python Code] and [https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/ PEP257: Docstring Conventions].

<!--T:45-->
These documents present explanations in a more user-friendly way:
* [https://realpython.com/python-pep8/ How to Write Beautiful Python Code With PEP 8]
* [https://realpython.com/documenting-python-code/ Documenting Python Code: A Complete Guide].

<!--T:31-->
== Conventions ==
In this documentation, some conventions for Python examples should be followed.

<!--T:32-->
This is a typical function signature
</translate>

{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=False, placement=None, face=None, support=None)
}}
<translate>

<!--T:33-->
* Arguments with key-value pairs are optional, with the default value indicated in the signature. This means that the following calls are equivalent:
</translate>

{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False, None, None, None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False, None, None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False, None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist)
}}

<translate>
<!--T:34-->
: In this example the first argument doesn't have a default value so it should always be included.

<!--T:35-->
* When the arguments are given with the explicit key, the optional arguments can be given in any order. This means that the following calls are equivalent:
</translate>
{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=False, placement=None, face=None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=False, face=None, placement=None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, placement=None, closed=False, face=None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, support=None, closed=False, placement=None, face=None)
}}
<translate>

<!--T:36-->
* Python's guidelines stress readability of code; in particular, parentheses should immediately follow the function name, and a space should follow a comma.
</translate>

{{Code|code=
p1 = Vector(0, 0, 0)
p2 = Vector(1, 1, 0)
p3 = Vector(2, 0, 0)
Wire = make_wire([p1, p2, p3], closed=True)
}}
<translate>

<!--T:37-->
* If code needs to be broken over several lines, this should be done at a comma inside brackets or parentheses; the second line should be aligned with the previous one.
</translate>

{{Code|code=
a_list = [1, 2, 3,
          2, 4, 5]

Wire = make_wire(pointslist,
                False, None,
                None, None)
}}
<translate>

<!--T:38-->
* Functions may return an object that can be used as the base of another drawing function.
</translate>
{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=True, face=True)
Window = make_window(Wire, name="Big window")
}}
<translate>

== Imports == <!--T:39-->

<!--T:40-->
Python functions are stored in files called modules. Before using any function in that module, the module must be included in the document with the {{incode|import}} instruction.

<!--T:41-->
This creates prefixed functions, that is, {{incode|module.function()}}. This system prevents name clashes with functions that are named the same but that come from different modules.
For example, the two functions {{incode|Arch.make_window()}} and {{incode|myModule.make_window()}} may coexist without problem.

<!--T:42-->
Full examples should include the necessary imports and the prefixed functions.

</translate>
{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD as App
import Draft

p1 = App.Vector(0, 0, 0)
p2 = App.Vector(1, 1, 0)
p3 = App.Vector(2, 0, 0)
Wire = Draft.make_wire([p1, p2, p3], closed=True)
}}

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD as App
import Draft
import Arch

p1 = App.Vector(0, 0, 0)
p2 = App.Vector(1, 0, 0)
p3 = App.Vector(1, 1, 0)
p4 = App.Vector(0, 2, 0)
pointslist = [p1, p2, p3, p4]

Wire = Draft.make_wire(pointslist, closed=True, face=True)
Structure = Arch.make_structure(Wire, name="Big pillar")
}}
<translate>

</translate>

import FreeCAD as App
 <code>import Part
 import Sketcher
 
 # Create a new document
 doc = App.newDocument("Flanged_Mount")
 
 # 1. CREATE THE BASE SKETCH
 sketch = doc.addObject('Sketcher::SketchObject', 'BaseSketch')
 sketch.Support = (doc.getObject('XYZ_Axis'), ['WZ_Plane'])
 sketch.MapMode = 'FlatFace'
 
 # Draw the outer rectangle (100mm x 60mm)
 sketch.addGeometry(Part.LineSegment(App.Vector(-50, -30, 0), App.Vector(50, -30, 0)), False)
 sketch.addGeometry(Part.LineSegment(App.Vector(50, -30, 0), App.Vector(50, 30, 0)), False)
 sketch.addGeometry(Part.LineSegment(App.Vector(50, 30, 0), App.Vector(-50, 30, 0)), False)
 sketch.addGeometry(Part.LineSegment(App.Vector(-50, 30, 0), App.Vector(-50, -30, 0)), False)
 
 # Constrain the rectangle symmetrically
 sketch.addConstraint(Sketcher.Constraint('Horizontal', 0))
 sketch.addConstraint(Sketcher.Constraint('Vertical', 1))
 sketch.addConstraint(Sketcher.Constraint('Horizontal', 2))
 sketch.addConstraint(Sketcher.Constraint('Vertical', 3))
 sketch.addConstraint(Sketcher.Constraint('Symmetric', 0, 1, 1, 2, doc.getObject('XYZ_Axis'), 1))
 
 # 2. FEATURE 1: EXTRUDE BASE FLANGE (10mm)
 pad1 = doc.addObject('PartDesign::Pad', 'BasePad')
 pad1.Profile = sketch
 pad1.Length = 10.0
 
 # 3. FEATURE 2: EXTRUDE CENTER BOSS (30mm)
 boss_sketch = doc.addObject('Sketcher::SketchObject', 'BossSketch')
 boss_sketch.addGeometry(Part.Circle(App.Vector(0,0,0), App.Vector(0,0,1), 25.0), False) # 50mm Diameter
 pad2 = doc.addObject('PartDesign::Pad', 'BossPad')
 pad2.Profile = boss_sketch
 pad2.Length = 30.0
 
 # 4. FEATURE 3: CUT THROUGH-HOLE (30mm)
 hole_sketch = doc.addObject('Sketcher::SketchObject', 'HoleSketch')
 hole_sketch.addGeometry(Part.Circle(App.Vector(0,0,0), App.Vector(0,0,1), 15.0), False) # 30mm Diameter
 pocket = doc.addObject('PartDesign::Pocket', 'ThruHole')
 pocket.Profile = hole_sketch
 pocket.Length = 50.0
 
 # Refresh the document to build geometry visually
 doc.recompute()</code>
{{Powerdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:API{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Python Code{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Glossary{{#translation:}}]]