Sandbox page to store the content of several abandoned 'FreeCAD and the World' pages.

<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
=FreeCAD used in production=
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
==Overview==

Follow-up to the '''Thread: List of firms/companies/organizations that use FreeCAD in Production or in their workflow''' ([https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=43604 forum thread]) this wiki page has been created to tracker all for-profit and non-profit public and private sector usage of FreeCAD in a production environment. The main intention is to debunk the stigma/perception that FreeCAD isn't stable or reliable enough to run in a production environment.

==How to Contribute==

In order to add anything to this list it needs to be vetted by the community. Non-vetted edits will be removed and the user banned for not complying with anti-spamming policies. The template to add an organization is as follows:

{{Code|code=
* '''Organization Name''' - ([https://url.to.website website-name]) - For profit/Non-Profit - 2-3 line summary of what the company does and how it uses FreeCAD in its workflow.
:'''Links:'''
:* URL showing company using FreeCAD
:* Financial documents (non-profits in the US must disclose their finances)
:* other interesting links, perhaps the company's commitment to open source etc... 
}}

== Organizations ==

=== A ===

=== B ===

=== C ===

=== D ===

=== E === 

=== F ===

=== G ===

=== H ===

=== I ===

=== J ===

=== K ===

=== L ===

=== M ===

=== N ===

=== O ===

* Open Source Ecology ([https://www.opensourceecology.org/ website]) - Non-Profit - Mechanical/Construction - OSE develops open source technology for sustainable living<br>FreeCAD is one of OSE's main formats and tools used to train their crowd-sourced volunteers and distribute their open source blueprints for replication on a global scale. All blueprints are continuously improved on and released in iterations (versions).
:* Links 
:: Founder: Macin Jakubowski ([https://forum.freecadweb.org/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=5938|@marcin_ose]) 
:: https://wiki.p2pfoundation.net/Open_Source_Ecology
:: https://wiki.opensourceecology.org/wiki/OSE_Financial_Transparency
:: https://wiki.opensourceecology.org/wiki/Financial_Management
:: https://wiki.opensourceecology.org/wiki/FreeCAD

=== P ===

=== R ===

=== S ===

=== T ===

=== U - Z ===

== Links ==

* Forum thread: [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=43604 List of firms/companies/organizations that use FreeCAD in Production or in their workflow]
</div>
</div>
{{clear}}

<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
=FreeCAD Humanitarian Projects=
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
== About ==

This wiki page is being used to track all Humanitarian based efforts reported and organized on the forum, that benefit from using FreeCAD as part of their projects. 

=== Ventilators ===

* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=44912 Modernizing the Bird Mark 7 ventilator (MARK-19)]
:: https://www.mark-19.com/
:: https://github.com/cleveriza/Mark-19-Ventilator
:: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SG3zlpRSfWE
:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forrest_Bird
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=24&t=46102 LUNGSTORS - An open-source blower based medical ventilator]
:: https://protors.co/lungstors/
:: https://youtu.be/Tb_EPnKUfUg
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=49742 LibreRespire open source ventilators]
:: http://librerespire.org/ 
:: https://www.tcd.ie/news_events/articles/trinity-researchers-build-open-source-ventilator-with-international-non-profit-consortium/
:: https://github.com/librerespire/ventilator/tree/manjula/3D-Models/Version0.1

=== Hospital Gear ===

* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=38643 Recreating a Libre/Open Source Otoscope in FreeCAD]
* [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=45600 Roll to Prone] mechanism that turns hospital patients from a supine to prone position (helps with respiratory distress)
</div>
</div>
{{clear}}

<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
=FreeCAD Philanthropy Open Source Hardware=
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
== Introduction ==

The purpose of this page is to log the activity of the FreeCAD community as it interacts with the open source hardware community.

* OSE
* Open source prosthetic limbs for children and animals

== GliaX ==

=== Open Source Otoscope ===

* Forum thread: https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=38643
* Medium article: https://medium.com/@trklou/a-clinical-grade-libre-open-source-otoscope-a61a0a6295e6
* reddit post: https://www.reddit.com/r/3Dprinting/comments/cqrsph/a_clinical_grade_libreopen_source_3d_printed/
* Github: https://github.com/GliaX/Otoscope
** Ticket: https://github.com/GliaX/Otoscope/issues/4

== Apertus - Open Source Cinema ==

* Github: https://github.com/apertus-open-source-cinema/beta-hardware
** Ticket: https://github.com/apertus-open-source-cinema/beta-hardware/issues/6
</div>
</div>
{{clear}}

<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
=FreeCAD Embedded in 3rd Party Applications=
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
== Background ==

FreeCAD's LGPL licensure allows it to be embedded and rebranded in 3rd party software. This page is a list known software that employ this strategy.

== Software ==

* SAMUEL EPFL - Laboratory of Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics (EESD) École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
*: clip: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Fj3wzeikqg
* DesignSPHysics
*: Website: https://design.sphysics.org/ 
*: Github: https://github.com/DualSPHysics/DesignSPHysics/
* CENOS Antenna Design and Simulation Software
*: Website: https://www.cenos-platform.com/antenna-design
</div>
</div>
{{clear}}

<div class="mw-collapsible mw-collapsed toccolours">
=Scientific literature=
<div class="mw-collapsible-content">
== Description ==

This page collects some articles published that reference or use the FreeCAD system.

Most of these articles are open-access.

* "Parametric CAD modeling for open source scientific hardware: Comparing OpenSCAD and FreeCAD Python scripts", Felipe Machado, Norberto Malpica, Susana Borromeo, [https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0225795 DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0225795].
* "Low-cost 4D BIM modelling: a comparison between FreeCAD and commercial software", D. Di Donato, Matteo Abita, [https://www.int-arch-photogramm-remote-sens-spatial-inf-sci.net/XLII-2-W17/107/2019/ DOI: 10.5194/isprs-archives-XLII-2-W17-107-2019].
* "Interactive Programming for Parametric CAD", Aman Mathur, Marcus Pirron, Damien Zufferey, [https://doi.org/10.1111/cgf.14046 DOI: 10.1111/cgf.14046].
</div>
</div>
{{clear}}


[[Category:Sandbox]]