{{Page in progress}}

= Personal Sandbox =

This is the personal sandbox of C4e.


== Current work ==


Current work an adding information to [[Translating_an_external_workbench#Gather_all_the_strings_from_your_module|Translating_an_external_workbench]]

===Needed tools===

To gather all the Strings from your module you can start with a command line tool called {{incode|lupdate}}.

{{Quote
|text=The lupdate command line tool finds translatable strings in C++ source, C++ header, Java, Python, QML, and UI files and generates or updates TS files.
|sign=Qt Group
|source=''[[https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/linguist-lupdate.html| Qt linguist manual]]'', Using lupdate
}}

The ''Qt for open source'' use can be downloaded from [https://www.qt.io/download-qt-installer-oss here].

====Linux====

The most common Linux distributions have ''PySide Binaries'' packaged in their repositories. An overview is listed in the [https://wiki.qt.io/PySide_Binaries_Linux Qt wiki]. 

If there is no packaged version available it can be installed via Python with the {{incode|pip}} command, e.g. {{incode|pip install pyside6}}. Therefore you have to install {{incode|pip}} first.


====macOS====

There are two mac plattform versions. The newer Apple Silicon (arm64) and the older Intel (x86) one.

You can either install the ''Qt for open source'' version like described above, or use the Homebrew version of [https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/pyside#default pyside].

The current Qt is built against intel based libraries, therefore you have to install Rosetta on arm64-based Macs.


====Windows====

On Windows the easiest way is the installation von the ''Qt for open source'' like described above.

The {{incode|lupdate}} tool is located in the bin folder of the installation directory of the Qt kit, for example, {{incode|C:\Qt\6.7.2\msvc2019_64\bin}}, on the 64-bit version of Windows.



{{ColoredParagraph|

'''Clean up the following paragraph!'''

* You will need the {{incode|lupdate}}, {{incode|lconvert}}, {{incode|lrelease}} and {{incode|pylupdate}} tools installed on your system. In Linux distributions they usually come in packages named {{incode|pyside-tools}} or {{incode|pyside2-tools}}. On some systems {{incode|lupdate}} is named {{incode|lupdate4}} or {{incode|lupdate5}} or {{incode|lupdate-qt4}} or similar. Same for the other tools. You may use the Qt4 or Qt5 version at your choice. In Qt6 there is no separate translation system for Python files, {{incode|lupdate}} is used to extract strings from all types of source files.
}}

{{incode|}} 

[[Category:Sandbox]]