{{Docnav
|[[Sketcher_LeaveSketch|Leave Sketch]]
|[[Sketcher_ViewSketch|View Sketch]]
|[[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher]]
|IconL=Sketcher_LeaveSketch.svg
|IconC=Workbench_Sketcher.svg
|IconR=Sketcher_ViewSketch.svg
}}

==Description==

The Sketcher Dialog is the main panel for controlling the sketch editing process. It displays the sketch constraints and allows the user to manage them.

==Usage==

# Enter edit mode of a sketch by double-clicking it in the [[Tree_view|Tree view]].
# The Sketcher Dialog will appear on the left side of the [[3D_view|3D view]].

==Structure==

The Sketcher Dialog consists of the following sections:

===Solver Messages===

This section displays messages from the constraint solver, including:
* The number of degrees of freedom (DOF) remaining in the sketch.
* Warning messages if the sketch is over-constrained or has conflicting constraints.
* The solver status: fully constrained, under-constrained, or over-constrained.

===Constraints===

This section lists all constraints in the sketch. Each constraint shows:
* Its type (e.g., distance, angle, horizontal, vertical).
* The value of the constraint (if applicable).
* The referenced geometry elements.

You can select a constraint in the list to highlight it in the 3D view. Right-clicking a constraint opens a context menu with options to:
* '''Edit''' the constraint value.
* '''Delete''' the constraint.
* '''Toggle''' the constraint's driving/reference state.

===Elements===

This section lists all geometry elements in the sketch, including:
* Points
* Lines
* Arcs
* Circles
* Ellipses
* B-Splines

{{Docnav
|[[Sketcher_LeaveSketch|Leave Sketch]]
|[[Sketcher_ViewSketch|View Sketch]]
|[[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher]]
|IconL=Sketcher_LeaveSketch.svg
|IconC=Workbench_Sketcher.svg
|IconR=Sketcher_ViewSketch.svg
}}

{{Sketcher Tools navi}}

{{Userdocnavi}}
