{{Docnav
|[[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher Workbench]]
|
|[[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher]]
|IconL=Workbench_Sketcher.svg
|IconC=Workbench_Sketcher.svg
|IconR=
}}

==Description==

The Sketcher Preferences allow you to customize the behavior and appearance of the [[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher Workbench]].

The preferences can be accessed from the main menu: {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences → Sketcher}}.

==Settings==

===General===

* '''Auto constraints''': If checked, constraints are automatically added when drawing. For example, clicking near an existing point will create a point-on-point constraint.
* '''Avoid redundant constraints''': If checked, the solver will try to avoid adding redundant constraints.
* '''Snap to grid''': If checked, points will snap to the grid when the grid is visible.

===Display===

* '''Grid spacing''': The distance between grid lines in the sketch.
* '''Grid style''': Choose between '''Dots''' or '''Lines''' for the grid display.
* '''Constraint scale''': The size of constraint icons displayed in the 3D view.
* '''Display constraints info''': If checked, constraint values are displayed next to the constraint icons.

===Colors===

* '''Default colors''': Set the default colors for different types of geometry:
** '''Create non-construction geometry''': The color for normal geometry.
** '''Create construction geometry''': The color for construction geometry.
** '''Internal alignment geometry''': The color for internal alignment geometry.
** '''Fully constrained sketch''': The color indicator for a fully constrained sketch.

===Visualization===

* '''Show grid''': Toggle the grid display in the sketch.
* '''Grid auto-spacing''': If checked, the grid spacing adjusts automatically based on zoom level.
* '''Rendering order''': Set the order in which different geometry types are rendered.

{{Docnav
|[[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher Workbench]]
|
|[[Sketcher_Workbench|Sketcher]]
|IconL=Workbench_Sketcher.svg
|IconC=Workbench_Sketcher.svg
|IconR=
}}

{{Sketcher Tools navi}}

{{Userdocnavi}}
