<languages/>
<translate>

<!--T:10-->
{{Docnav
|[[Std_RecallWorkingView|RecallWorkingView]]
|[[Std_DrawStyle|DrawStyle]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=
|IconR=Std_DrawStyle.svg
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

<!--T:5-->
{{GuiCommand
|Name=Std FreezeViews
|MenuLocation=View → Freeze display → ...
|Workbenches=All
|SeeAlso=[[Std_StoreWorkingView|Std StoreWorkingView]], [[Std_RecallWorkingView|Std RecallWorkingView]], [[Std_ViewIvIssueCamPos|Std ViewIvIssueCamPos]]
}}

==Introduction== <!--T:11-->

<!--T:12-->
FreeCAD can store camera settings in up to 50 'frozen views'. The menu options that deal with frozen views can be found in the {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display}} submenu. Frozen views are not stored in the document and, if not saved with the '''[[#Save views|Save views...]]''' menu option, will be lost when the FreeCAD application closes.

==Save views== <!--T:13-->

===Description=== <!--T:14-->

<!--T:15-->
The '''Save views...''' menu option saves all existing frozen views in a file with the {{FileName|*.cam}} extension.

===Usage=== <!--T:17-->

<!--T:18-->
# To use this option one or more frozen views must exist. A frozen view is created with the '''[[#Freeze view|Freeze view]]''' menu option.
# Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display → Save views...}} option from the menu.
# Enter a filename in the dialog box.
# Press the {{Button|Save}} button.

===Options=== <!--T:19-->

<!--T:20-->
* Press {{KEY|Esc}} or the {{Button|Cancel}} button to abort the command.

==Load views== <!--T:21-->

===Description=== <!--T:22-->

<!--T:23-->
The '''Load views...''' menu option loads frozen views from a file with the {{FileName|*.cam}} extension. All existing frozen views will be deleted.

===Usage=== <!--T:25-->

<!--T:26-->
# Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display → Load views...}} option from the menu.
# Press the {{Button|Yes}} button in the Restore views dialog box to confirm you want to lose all existing frozen views.
# Select a file.
# Press the {{Button|Open}} button.

===Options=== <!--T:27-->

<!--T:28-->
* If the Restore views dialog box is displayed: press {{KEY|Esc}} or the {{Button|No}} button to abort the command.
* If the file dialog box is displayed: press {{KEY|Esc}} or the {{Button|Cancel}} button to abort the command.

==Freeze view== <!--T:29-->

===Description=== <!--T:30-->

<!--T:31-->
The '''Freeze view''' menu option saves the current camera settings (direction, zoom, etc.) of the [[3D_view|3D view]] in a new entry in the frozen view list. The frozen view list can contain up to 50 frozen views.

===Usage=== <!--T:32-->

<!--T:33-->
# There are several ways to invoke this option:
#* Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display → Freeze view}} option from the menu.
#* Use the keyboard shortcut: {{KEY|Shift}}+{{KEY|F}}.
# The new frozen view can be selected in the {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display}} submenu.

==Clear views== <!--T:34-->

===Description=== <!--T:35-->

<!--T:36-->
The '''Clear views''' menu option deletes all existing frozen views.

===Usage=== <!--T:37-->

<!--T:38-->
# Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display → Clear views}} option from the menu.

==Restore view== <!--T:39-->

===Description=== <!--T:40-->

<!--T:41-->
For each frozen view a '''Restore view''' option is added with which it can be restored. The options are numbered: '''Restore view 1''' - '''Restore view 50'''.

===Usage=== <!--T:42-->

<!--T:43-->
# There are several ways to invoke this option:
#* Select the correct {{MenuCommand|View → Freeze display → Restore view}} option from the menu.
#* For the first 9 frozen views: use the keyboard shortcut: {{KEY|Ctrl}}+{{KEY|1}} - {{KEY|Ctrl}}+{{KEY|9}}.


<!--T:46-->
{{Docnav
|[[Std_RecallWorkingView|RecallWorkingView]]
|[[Std_DrawStyle|DrawStyle]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=
|IconR=Std_DrawStyle.svg
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

</translate>
{{Std_Base_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}