{{Docnav
|[[Std_ViewDockUndockFullscreen|Std ViewDockUndockFullscreen]]
|[[Std_DockOverlayTransparentAll|Std DockOverlayTransparentAll]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=Std_ViewFullscreen.svg
|IconR=
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

{{GuiCommand
|Name=Std DockOverlayAll
|MenuLocation=View → Dock panel overlay → Toggle overlay for all
|Workbenches=All
|Shortcut={{KEY|F4}}
|Version=1.0
|SeeAlso=[[Std_DockOverlayTransparentAll]], [[Std_DockOverlayToggle]]
}}

==Description==

The dock panel overlay feature provides a way to maximize the space available for [[3D_view|3D views]] by transforming docked panels (like the [[Combo view|Combo View]] and [[Report view|Report View]]) into transparent floating widgets. When activated, these panels float on top of the main window, allowing the 3D view to expand into the space they previously occupied. The panels become fully opaque and usable when the mouse cursor hovers over them, and transparent again when the cursor moves away. This allows for interacting with the 3D model "through" the transparent panel.

The '''Std DockOverlayAll''' command is the master switch for this feature. It toggles the overlay mode on or off for all docked windows simultaneously.

==Usage==

# There are several ways to invoke the command:
#* Select the {{MenuCommand|View → Dock panel overlay → Toggle overlay for all}} option from the menu.
#* Use the keyboard shortcut: {{KEY|F4}}.

==Preferences==

The appearance of the overlay panels is controlled by stylesheets. This can be configured in two ways:

* '''Automatic Detection''': The system will automatically select an overlay theme based on the user's application theme. If your the main theme (set in {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences... → Display → UI → Style sheet (advanced)}}) is detected as "light", a light-style overlay is used. Otherwise, a dark-style overlay is used. This works for most users without any configuration.
* '''Manual Override''': For advanced control, a stylesheet can be specified manually using the [[Parameter_Editor|Parameter Editor]].
# Go to the {{MenuCommand|Tools → Edit parameters...}} menu.
# Navigate to the following subgroup: {{Code|BaseApp → Preferences → MainWindow}}.
# Find the string parameter named {{incode|OverlayActiveStyleSheet}}.
# Change its value to the name of a different built-in stylesheet (e.g., {{Incode|Light Theme + Light Background.qss}}) or to the full path of a custom {{.qss}} file.
* Alternatively, an installed style sheet can be selected via {{MenuCommand|Edit → Preferences... → Display → UI → Overlay style sheet}}

{{Docnav
|[[Std_ViewDockUndockFullscreen|Std ViewDockUndockFullscreen]]
|[[Std_DockOverlayTransparentAll|Std DockOverlayTransparentAll]]
|[[Std_View_Menu|Std View Menu]]
|IconL=Std_ViewFullscreen.svg
|IconR=
|IconC=Freecad.svg
}}

{{Std_Base_navi{{#translation:}}}}
{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}