== Thanks and a Tip - A Time and Error Saving Tip ==

Just had to say thanks. This is a great time saver if you are going to use spreadsheets and aliases. 

And I want to share a tip: I have created a standard spreadsheet which I start every project with. Among other things it has some frequently used constants that are frequently used in my projects: I have started with several sizes for fillets and chamfers but am sure I will add more as time goes by. Other constants and conversion factors come to mind. 

But one of the best ideas I have implemented is to name as many of the principal headings in the tree with my own, unique names. I have standard, two or four character prefixes for each type of item. "Body", followed by a descriptive name for bodies. "Part", followed by a descriptive name for parts. "SS", followed by a descriptive name for spreadsheets. I use those prefixes in all my spreadsheets. And I make up two character prefixes for each alias used for the individual values. 

So a spreadsheet will always start with "SS" which even I can remember. Then the program immediately suggests all names that start with "SS" which are all spreadsheets. I can quickly pick the spreadsheet I need for the present. Two keystrokes and one mouse click and I have it. And it's super accurate: NO ERRORS ever. Same thing for bodies, parts, and all the aliases. If a "BodyGear" has a large hole in the middle, the alias might become "GeLargeID" for the internal diameter of that large hole: "Ge" as a two character prefix for gear, "Large" because there may be smaller holes in it, and "ID" for internal diameter. If I am working on that large gear, I just type "Ge" and all the aliases for that gear pop up. Again, two keystrokes and one mouse click and I am there with no mistakes, ever. If a part had more than two or three sizes of holes I would probably use a letter and a number ("G1", "G2", etc.)

This works like a charm and saves me a lot of time. And your EasyAlias macro makes it even better. 

Thanks! [[User:EPAIII|EPAIII]] ([[User talk:EPAIII|talk]]) 13:30, 12 February 2026 (UTC)