{{Message|Please just discuss topics of User Hub page here, for general FreeCAD questions use the [[Tracker]] system}}

== How to Talk ==
This page is for your questions and wishes on the FreeCAD user documentation. To start a new discussion thread use the '''<big>+</big>'''-button next to the ''edit'' button on the top of the page. To add a new comment to an existing discussion thread start it with one colon at the beginning of the each new line. The next comment uses two colons and so on. At the end of your entry add two dashes a blank and four tildes:

 <nowiki>-- ~~~~</nowiki>

This expands to your signature and clearly marks the end of your comment. And last but not least, before submitting your new entry, please use the ''preview'' button to check what you wrote. Thank you for remembering these rules on all ''talk'' pages.

== Can't download online manual ==

Hi,
I have installed the debian package (0.5.258), but when I try to download online help, the program gives the following error:
Cannot find host 'free-cad.sourceforge.net'.
How can I download the online help and/or a manual?
Thank you,
Xwang
:Hi Xwang, the location of the online documentation has recently changed to this wiki here. The link in the latest package has not been updated yet. In the preferences editor of freecad you can specify the location for the online documentation. I would suggest that you set this link to [http://juergen-riegel.net/FreeCAD/Docu/index.php/User_hub http://juergen-riegel.net/FreeCAD/Docu/index.php/User_hub]. That might work. But dont overestimate the amount of information that you can download. As you see the documentation is in a very early stage yet. -- [[User:Xorx|Dr. Schorsch]] 13:54, 22 October 2006 (CEST)
:: As stated in the user hub, the download of online help is currently not availible due the change of the wiki software. We are currently working on a new concept. Until that is finished you have to rely on this wiki. -- [[User:Xorx|Dr. Schorsch]] 14:47, 27 October 2006 (CEST)

== Cannot load PartGui ==

Hi,

I have just compiled and installed FreeCAD 0.5.258 on Ubuntu Edgy with the libs available in the Ubuntu package repository. I am new to this. FreeCAD starts up well but I can't draw anything and it says "Cannot load PartGui" in the output window.

Did something go wrong when compiling?

Cheers,

Hanjeko Merkus
: Hi Hanjeko, I had a similar problem on windows because I had installed Python 2.3, but the current version of FreeCAD uses Python 2.5. Maybe it is the same in your case. Usually it is a good thing to look in the console output or the python output window in freecad or to start the command line version of freecad and say "import PartGui". There you might get more infomation.
: Nevertheless you should file such questions in the [https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=49159 FreeCAD tracker utitlity] on SourceForge. There should allways be somebody who can answer your question or it may have been allready answered. -- [[User:Xorx|Dr. Schorsch]] 14:58, 1 November 2006 (CET)

== Install the libraries ==

hi
I've installed all the pack, but I don't know how to install the libraries..
can someone help me?
thank you
Andrea

: Hi Andrea, you need only to install the [[Third Party Libraries|LibPack]] when you want to compile FreeCAD yourself. In that case see [[Developer hub]] where everything is explained in detail. -- [[User:Xorx|Dr. Schorsch]] 10:52, 20 November 2006 (CET)

== How to start freecad ==

I installed freecad on an Ubuntu Dapper PC using:


<pre>
sudo apt-get install libcoin40c2 libgts-0.7-1 libsoqt20 libxerces26c2 
wget -nd http://easynews.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/free-cad/freecad_0.5.258-1_i386.deb
dpkg -i /home/LinuxDownLoads/CAD/freecad_0.5.258-1_i386.deb
</pre>


It has been installed successfully.  But I don't know how to run the program!  There is NO launch icon on the Desktop / Application menu.  I tried "freecad" on the command line - no luck.  Some help doc, online help or readme file with a debian package would help.

-PuzzledNewUser

: The answer is, "/usr/lib/freecad/bin/FreeCAD"

-NoLongerAPuzzledNewUser

-- unsigned entry by [[user:66.209.137.250]], Dez. 1st, 22:44

: Thanks for your input!, Please use <nowiki>~~~~</nowiki> to sign your entries. -- [[User:Xorx|Dr. Schorsch]] 12:34, 4 December 2006 (CET)

== Can I... ==

Can I use this program for my architecture studies? if so, do you have a complete manual to download? -- <small>unsigned entry of an anonymous user</small>
: Yes of course you can, but: The current manual is what you find here, when you follow the link to the [[User_hub]]. But the amount of user interaction in FreeCAD is still very limited. It is a powerfull framework for softwareproducers to build their products on. Try it and find out if it can be usefull for you -- [[User:Xorx|Dr. Schorsch]] 20:31, 10 January 2007 (CET)

== File formats ==

What file formats can FreeCad read? What formats can it write? A complete list would be nice, as well as any future plans. I need a CAD package whose output can be used by other tools (FEA tools for example). Interoperability with other free CAD tools is a plus too.

== Artwork page ==

What about an [[Artwork]] page, where people can put stuff they make, like icons, etc...? So it makes like a pool where developers can pick things... --[[User:Yorik|yorik]] 15:26, 25 February 2007 (CET)

== Features list ==

As a structure to hold every information in this wiki I'd suggest to create a FreeCAD features page.

That could link to specific pages and could help understand what users can expect from FreeCad and also help contributors to understand which parts of this wiki need more contributions.
Unfortunately this is the first time I read about this tool so I won't be able to start it right now.

-- [[User:213.160.81.6|213.160.81.6]] 11:36, 1 March 2007 (CET)

[[User:189.166.161.63|189.166.161.63]] 00:00, 17 April 2007 (CEST)

== Installing FreeCAD in Ubuntu Edgy ==

Hi, I'm trying to install this software, it asks me the package libgts-0.7-1 , but actually I've the version libgts-0.7-5 , but the software doesn't recognize me that version, what should I do?

:Is it the deb installer that complains, or the installed program? If it is the program itself after being installed, try making in your usr/lib folder a symlink named libgts-0.7.so.3 pointing to your real libgts... Usually this works perfectly for programs that ask for earlier versions...--[[User:Yorik|yorik]] 16:22, 18 April 2007 (CEST)
== How to work? ==
Luciano
I was able only to insert a cube and anything more how it is possible to cut or to operate boolean operations on it?

== How Do I Do Something? ==

I have installed FreeCAD on an Ubuntu system with installing all packages first that dpkg claimed as missing.
I can start FreeCAD and get a nice GUI, but I cannot create anything. Everything that would actually create
something is grayed out. What am I missing?
--[[User:87.174.184.146|87.174.184.146]] 20:56, 31 July 2007 (CEST)

**** What should I have done for this message? ****

I knew FreeCAD in a website of the Internet.
The environment of the my PC which I used was "Windows Vista", but I installed FreeCAD on "Windows XP SP2" because there was only XP or 2000 environment.
I started FreeCAD Version 0.6 and input a command on Python console.
What should I have done for this message?
<pre>
>>> import Part
>>> b = Part.createBox(0,0,0,100,100,100)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'createBox'
>>> Part.show(b)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'show'
</pre>
I ask for support in oneself wanting to get FreeCAD by all means.
A guide for a plain tutorial guide wants to look if possible.

I ask for support.    [User:aki]
*****************
: .
: The version you are using is too old. You should go to the download list on sourceforge and get [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/free-cad/FreeCAD_0.7.1350_installer.msi?modtime=1211418700&big_mirror=0 FreeCAD_0.7.1350_installer.msi]. BTW it's better to post your messages directly to the sourceforge open discussion/help tracker because we get automatically a mail notification for new postings. -- [[User:Wmayer|Wmayer]] 09:47, 11 June 2008 (CEST)

**** Thank you very match !
I uninstalled FreeCAD Virsion 0.6 and installed Virsion 0.7 again.
It was displayed definitely when I carried out an order to make line and circle in Python console. Thank you.    [User:aki]

***Furthermore, I ask a question.
Will FreeCAD work on vista which is the new Windows OS? 
How does the installation method turn out? 

Because I am inconvenient by the use that I change it in two OS(vista or XP), 
please teach it.   [User:aki]
******************

Help me!
Where should I have put folder FreeCADLibs6.0 which I extracted from FreeCADLibs6.0.zip?

: .
: FreeCAD works under Windows 2000, XP and Vista. For all platforms you can use the same MSI installer package. The FreeCADLibs6.0.zip file you're talking about is for developers only. It contains the header files and libraries we're using to build the FreeCAD sources. -- [[User:Wmayer|Wmayer]] 10:45, 15 June 2008 (CEST)

== inserimento file PDF ==

comando per inserimento file in formato PDF [[Special:Contributions/5.91.119.221|5.91.119.221]] 10:09, 10 March 2026 (UTC)