== Changing This Page ==

Is it possible to make changes to this page @[[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]]? Also, this is my first time trying the new discussion system. [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 15:40, 18 June 2025 (UTC)

:You need additional rights. I can't edit the page either. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 22:50, 19 June 2025 (UTC)
::By the way, how do you like the new discusion feature? And should this page be opened to editors? [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 19:54, 21 June 2025 (UTC)
:::The Donate page was protected because someone at some point requested donations for a YouTube channel of a friend.
:::The new text needs some tweaks IMO:
:::"FreeCAD's some developers has an LiberaPay team account; There, you can donate any amount via credit card, Paypal or SEPA bank transfer, one time only or recurrently. Any money received here is split equally among the listed developers. This is the recommended option as it funds developers directly. The Liberapay platform is also open-source and doesn't take any percentage on your donation. The LiberaPay account is managed directly by its members."
:::My suggestion:
:::"Some FreeCAD developers have a shared LiberaPay team account. There, you can donate any amount via credit card, Paypal or SEPA bank transfer, one time only or recurrently. Any money received is split equally among the listed developers. The Liberapay platform is also open-source and doesn't take any percentage on your donation. The LiberaPay account is managed directly by its members."
:::We typically do not use the Talk pages very often. But the new feature does make things easier, so maybe we will see more discussions in the future. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 10:08, 22 June 2025 (UTC)