== Newby like me had difficulties with finding this article and was confused by the "reference" check box ==

Disclaimer: I am a software engineer diving into cad, so common terminology would be unfamiliar to me

In the gui I discovered this "reference" check box so I though I surely need to tick reference to reference this value!

Well nope. It was very unobvious to me that this makes it what I would call a "measurement" or "refereancable measurement"

Finding this article also needed some perserverance

And only later I realized "wait the name is enough to reference it, I don't need to make this a "reference"

Maybe this is not the right place, but I think this article also does not help to fix the confusion. [[User:DonnerWolfBach|DonnerWolfBach]] ([[User talk:DonnerWolfBach|talk]]) 05:40, 29 May 2026 (UTC)

:Hmm, strange. The main Sketcher Workbench page mentions reference dimensions and links to this page. So the information is readily available. If the checkbox had to be ticked as you thought, it would obviously be ticked by default. So there is a lack of logic in your thinking here IMO (especially considering your profession).
:I have been involved in the Sketcher documentation so I am obviously biassed. But the explanation on the page seems reasonably clear. If you have a better text in mind, then please share it.
:Finally a note: We do not use the Talk pages much in this Wiki. So do not expect to always get an answer. Using the forum can work better. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 08:26, 29 May 2026 (UTC)