== Working through tutorial. FC 1.0.2   2025-11-13 ==

''Download the sample file'' - works

''Open default page - mmm''. For my fresh install the default page is completely blank. would be more helpful to direct to the next door button 'open from template' with a note saying where the templates install to, and/or a download link for the tutorial one. 

I cannot find which of the templates is the one in the tutorial. Not a big deal, but it makes me nervous about the next error...

--

# ''Select Page in the [[Combo view]] and scroll to the Scale property on the Data tab.''
# ''Change the Scale from 1 to 2 and press Enter. The View will get bigger.''

On my install, on any template page I have tried the view does not get bigger. I get the error "Pocket001: Removing splitter failed" instead. 

--

''Click on  [[TechDraw VerticalDimension]].''  Took me a second to find it as hidden under the 'Insert Dimension' button options. Knew to look for it there based on previous software. 

Dimensions are coming through fine except at 1/2 scale compared to tutorial images for obvious reasons.

--

=== ''Editable Text  - Click on the small green square beside'' ===
No small green square in my view. It's a RMB click on the text. 

---

''Click on  [[TechDraw ToggleFrame]].''  works fine

---


[[User:PatBarry|PatBarry]] ([[User talk:PatBarry|talk]]) 14:55, 13 November 2025 (UTC)

:Part 2: Multiple Views of a Single Part
:steps 1:2 setting up from template. Really excellent. works fine. 
:''step 3: Click on  [[TechDraw ProjectionGroup]]''  Looks incredibly useful. can't find button. ahh. looked it up on wiki. Menu path: TechDraw → TechDraw Views → Insert Projection Group
:Then the object comes in, but I think the default file axes are diffferent, as it appears on a sort of isometric view angle on all views? Definetly not the square view from the tutorial.
:---
:''Click on  [[TechDraw LinkDimension]].''    Again, button hidden in menu, but at least path a bit more intuitive - TechDraw - Dimesnions - LinkDims [[User:PatBarry|PatBarry]] ([[User talk:PatBarry|talk]]) 15:11, 13 November 2025 (UTC)