== Why do you make things unnecessarily hard? ==

Hi. You have reverted some of my edits to your pages and have thereby undone some of my fixes. That is NOT a good idea. Also do not play around with translation unit tags. They are added automatically. And once they are in place they should not be renumbered. That messes up the work of translators. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 12:15, 13 January 2026 (UTC)

:You should not replace the content of a Wiki page with the pasted content of a local file. That is probable the cause of this problem. I have reverted your changes to the [[Robust_MCP_Bridge_Workbench]] page. Please do not reintroduce the <nowiki>{{Workbench ...}}</nowiki> template. It does not exist. I have tried to reapply your edits to your macro pages. But please check that. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 12:36, 13 January 2026 (UTC)
::I have also updated [[Robust_MCP_Bridge_Workbench]] now. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 15:10, 14 January 2026 (UTC)
:Sorry. I only saw these messages today, after further edits. I have been keeping these wiki pages in git along with the source code which honestly seemed much easier from my end, but I can see that this is an issue for others, so I am happy to change the workflow and apologize for making things more difficult then they needed to be.
:Are there sections that are completely safe to edit as the maintainer and others that should not be edited at all in general? [[User:Spkane|Spkane]] ([[User talk:Spkane|talk]]) 18:27, 19 January 2026 (UTC)
:I went back to your last edits and applied the recent changes. Again sorry for clobbering them. I was trying to keep the wiki page source in the GitHub repo along with the source code, but now realize this won't work with the normal wiki workflow. I'll adjust things on my end. I certainly wasn't trying to make things hard for you all. [[User:Spkane|Spkane]] ([[User talk:Spkane|talk]]) 18:53, 19 January 2026 (UTC)
::Sorry for getting annoyed. You can of course edit the pages in question, no sections are off-limits, but please always work with the most recent version of the page on the Wiki. The [[WikiPages]] page will give you a better idea of available templates and how translations work. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 09:56, 20 January 2026 (UTC)