== Talk pages should not be used for forum questions ==

Hi,

I see that you approve new Talk pages used for questions that belong in the forum. IMO we should not do that. Talk pages should discuss the content of the Wiki page they belong to. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 07:19, 4 August 2025 (UTC)

:I automatically approve posts if they aren't spam or vandalism. However, if you do, I'd be more selective on talk pages. [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 10:23, 4 August 2025 (UTC)
:Here, if the person is a member, I think the most logical option is to move the relevant page to their talk page, of course, if they are not a member, we will continue to delete them directly. [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 08:40, 6 October 2025 (UTC)

== Template:Message seems broken ==

The Template:Message seems broken after your recent edit. Please check [[Release_notes_1.1]]. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 12:39, 17 August 2025 (UTC)

:What do you mean by broken? Could you elaborate a bit? [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 17:45, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
::You have already reverted it now. So I suppose you have found the issue? [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 19:32, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
:::Yes. When there is a space somewhere in the template, <nowiki><pre> is added there.</nowiki> [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 20:09, 17 August 2025 (UTC)

== Too much bottom margin for Template:Caption ==

The revised template has too much bottom margin. Please correct this. See [[Draft_Snap]]. There is the caption to h2 distance to consider, but also the caption to next image distance. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 19:41, 17 August 2025 (UTC)

:I think I fixed the problem by adding an extra paragraph. [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 20:08, 17 August 2025 (UTC)

== WTH: why have my recent edits been reverted? ==

I am seeing several pages where my recent edits have been reverted. This is very confusing for me. Please be more careful.
Example:
https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Std_Refresh&diff=1648535&oldid=1648400 [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 08:11, 26 September 2025 (UTC)

:Sorry, I was trying something, I didn't check this place. Forgive me. [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 12:45, 26 September 2025 (UTC)
::That's OK, Sorry for being a bit grumpy. The "title case change" is taking its toll... [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 10:11, 27 September 2025 (UTC)

== Something is wrong: All edits to translated pages result in 'Broken pages' ==

Hi,

I don't know what has changed recently, but all edits to translated pages currently result in 'Broken pages'. Even after undoing a dummy edit the page is reported as broken. Can you please check? Thanks. [[User:Roy 043|Roy 043]] ([[User talk:Roy 043|talk]]) 09:27, 25 November 2025 (UTC)

:Can you give an example? Is it still ongoing? [[User:Reqrefusion|Reqrefusion]] ([[User talk:Reqrefusion|talk]]) 15:02, 25 November 2025 (UTC)