<languages/>
{{TOCright}}
<translate>

== Introduction ==

Starting in FreeCAD version 1.1, FreeCAD natively supports versioned configuration and app-data subdirectories. If there is an existing configuration file, when version 1.1 and later are first started, a screen appears offering to either migrate to the new versioned structure by copying an existing configuration, to continue using the "shared" configuration from a previous version, or to start with a new default configuration.

=== Migrating to a versioned configuration ===

The default, and recommended, option is to migrate an existing configuration into a new one for the new version of FreeCAD. The consequence is that all of the installed addons, config files, and other user data is duplicated into a new directory for the new version. This means that if an older version of FreeCAD is launched it will be able to use the older configuration and addons, preserving compatibility and preventing any data loss or potential unexpected behavior if an old version tries to load new configuration options, updated addons, etc.

=== Sharing configurations ===

Users with very large app data directories (for example because the Parts Library is installed) may not wish to duplicate all data and may choose to continue to use the last-found configuration folder (for versions prior to 1.1 this is an unversioned directory). This runs the risk that a new configuration or addon will prevent an older version of FreeCAD from loading correctly.

=== Start with a new default configuration ===

This option creates a new versioned configuration directory, but does not copy anything into it, starting the new installation with fresh "factory default" settings.

</translate>