<languages/>
Logo FreeCAD zostało [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=87074 wybrane przez społeczność FreeCAD] podczas konkursu z propozycji złożonych przez członków społeczności. Zostało ono następnie przekazane FPA do zarządzania w imieniu całej społeczności FreeCAD.

<span id="Trademark_and_licensing"></span>
==Znak towarowy i licencjonowanie==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The logo is a [https://fpa.freecad.org/documents/Trademark.pdf trademark owned by the FPA (FreeCAD project association)]. This means the [https://fpa.freecad.org FPA] is the sole body authorized to set its license, that is, to say who has the right to use the FreeCAD logo or not. The logo files, which are part of the FreeCAD source code or available elsewhere, for example on this wiki, are still all under the same licenses as the rest of FreeCAD (LGPL for the source code and Creative Commons for this wiki). You are still free to use the FreeCAD logo anywhere, on the same terms as the rest of FreeCAD, which means, basically, that you must use it to reference FreeCAD, and not use it, for example, for your own product, or any other way that is not referencing FreeCAD.
</div>

Najważniejsze jest to, że możesz używać logo FreeCAD w dowolnym miejscu, ale powinieneś używać go tylko w odniesieniu do samego FreeCAD, a nie na przykład do własnej firmy.

<span id="Guidelines"></span>
==Wytyczne==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The logo files in different formats are all hosted on the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/tree/main/images/logos FPA Git repository]. For your convenience, a [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/blob/main/images/logos/logo_kit.zip logo kit (zip file)] is also available for download, that contains all the needed files.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Together with the logo files, you will also find a convenient [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA/blob/main/images/logos/guidelines/guidelines.pdf guide book] that explains how to use the logo.
</div>
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]