<languages/>

{{Docnav
|[[Third_Party_Libraries/pt-br|Bibliotecas de terceiros]]
|[[Tracker/pt-br|Rastreador de erros]]
}}

{{TOCright}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Tool Page ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For every serious software development you need tools. Here is a list of tools we use to develop FreeCAD:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Platform independent tools ===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== Qt-Toolkit ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Qt-toolkit is a state of the art, platform independent user interface design tool. It is contained in the [[Third Party Libraries|LibPack]] of FreeCAD, but can also be downloaded at [https://qt-project.org/downloads Qt project].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== Inkscape ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This is a great vector drawing program. It adheres to the SVG standard and is used to draw Icons and Pictures. Inkscape is Free and Open Source Software licensed under the GPL. Get it at [https://inkscape.org www.inkscape.org].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== Doxygen ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
A very good and stable tool to generate source documentation from the .h and .cpp files.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== Gimp ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Not much to say about the '''GNU Image Manipulation Program'''. It can manipulate .xpm files which is a very convenient way to handle Icons in QT programs. XPM is basically C-Code which can be compiled into a program. Gimp supports the free .png file format used in the wiki.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Get the GIMP here: [https://gimp.org www.gimp.org]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== Gitkraken ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This is a proprietary git GUI that is very helpful to learn how git works if you're interested in wanting to contribute to FreeCAD. Relevant pages to research:
* [[Developing_FreeCAD_with_GitKraken|Developing FreeCAD with GitKraken]]
* [[Source_code_management|Source code management]]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== OBS Studio ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Free and open source software for video recording and live streaming. More details on official website: [https://obsproject.com/ obsproject.com]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== OpenCamLib ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
[[OpenCamLib|OpenCamLib]] (OCL) is an open source library aiming to provide computer aided manufacturing (CAM) algorithms. FreeCAD uses OCL in the experimental 3D surface path operations and other experimental features.
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== StarUML ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
A full featured but proprietary UML program. It has a lot of major features, including reverse engineering C++ source code.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Download here: [https://staruml.io staruml.io]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Tools on Windows ===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== Visual Studio Community ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Visual Studio Community is free for open source projects and small structures. Installation is modular. You can add support for a large number of languages including C++ and Python.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
It can be downloaded at [https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/fr/vs/community Visual Studio Community].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==== CamStudio ====
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Is an Open Source tool to record Screen-casts (Webcasts). It is a very good tool to create tutorials by recording them. Its far not so boring as writing documentation.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
See [https://camstudio.org camstudio.org] for details.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Tools on Linux ===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
TODO
</div>


{{Docnav
|[[Third_Party_Libraries/pt-br|Bibliotecas de terceiros]]
|[[Tracker/pt-br|Rastreador de erros]]
}}

{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
{{clear}}