<languages/>

{{Docnav
| 
|[[Manual:What_is_FreeCAD|الدليل: ما هو FreeCAD]]
|[[Manual:Introduction|دليل البدأ]]
|IconC=Crystal_Clear_manual.png
}}

{{Manual:TOC}}

[https://www.freecad.ogr FreeCAD] هو برنامج تصميم ثلاثي الأبعاد مفتوح المصدر ومجاني، يُستخدم لإنشاء نماذج ثلاثية الأبعاد باستخدام الحاسوب (CAD)، بدءًا من التصاميم البسيطة وصولًا إلى المشاريع المعقدة التي تتضمن تجميعات واسعة من أجزاء عدة. وبفضل طبيعته مفتوحة المصدر، يُمكن تحميل FreeCAD وتوزيعه وتعديله واستخدامه للأغراض الشخصية والتجارية مجانًا. ويُنشر كوده المصدري علنًا بموجب [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Lesser_General_Public_License ترخيص LGPL]. وهذا ما يجعل FreeCAD خيارًا جيدًا ليس فقط للمستخدمين المبتدئين نسبيًا، مثل هواة الطباعة ثلاثية الأبعاد، بل أيضًا للمستخدمين ذوي الخبرة الذين يتطلعون إلى تجربة أداة تصميم هندسية مختلفة.

صدر البرنامج لأول مرة في عام ٢٠٠٢. ومنذ ذلك الحين - وبفضل المساهمات المتواصلة من مجتمع متفانٍ من المطورين والمستخدمين - نما برنامج FreeCAD ببطء ولكن بثبات. لم تقتصر جهود المساهمين على تحسين قدرات FreeCAD كأداة تصميم بمساعدة الحاسوب (CAD) فحسب، بل أدت أيضًا إلى تطوير وظائف إضافية في مجالات منفصلة مرتبطة ارتباطًا وثيقًا بمجموعة FreeCAD الأساسية؛ على سبيل المثال: بيئة عمل FEM، التي تُمكّن من إجراء تحليل العناصر المحدودة والبسيط، بالإضافة إلى بيئة عمل BIM التي توفر إمكانيات نمذجة معلومات المباني (BIM).

This user manual is being written and updated for version [[Release_notes_1.0|1.0]] of FreeCAD. Its purpose is to serve as a guide for individuals who wish to start using FreeCAD for their projects. No extensive prior knowledge of any CAD software is required, and the contents of this manual are organized in a straightforward and comprehensive manner, divided into various application areas. The guide includes instructions regarding the installation of FreeCAD, the use of its most prominent workbenches, and extends to more complex topics such as Python scripting. Efforts have been made to present the information in an organized, step-by-step fashion, complete with images. This structure ensures that both novice CAD users and more experienced individuals can benefit from studying this manual. The contents of this manual are published under the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ Creative Commons 4.0] license, and can be freely used, downloaded, copied, and modified. The FreeCAD Manual is continuously improved through user experiences and contributions. A [https://wiki.freecad.org/FreeCAD_manual_converter Python script] is available to convert the latest version of this manual into PDF or EPUB formats for offline reading. 

Another valuable resource is the [[Main_Page|FreeCAD wiki]], where numerous contributors have added useful information covering every aspect of the software. Due to the wealth of information available, navigating and using the wiki can be somewhat challenging and overwhelming, especially for new users. For this reason, it is advised to first study the user manual, which offers a more streamlined and smooth introduction, before delving into the more extensive details available in the wiki. Finally, the [https://forum.freecad.org/ FreeCAD Forums] are also very helpful and provide additional support and insights.



{{Docnav
| 
|[[Manual:What_is_FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]
|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]
|IconC=Crystal_Clear_manual.png
}}