<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

<span id="Background_history"></span>
== 배경 역사 ==

DXF(Drawing Exchange Format)는 Autodesk가 주력 AutoCAD 제품과 다른 소프트웨어 간의 파일 교환을 가능하게 하기 위해 개발한 독점적인 CAD 데이터 형식입니다. DXF 형식을 읽고 쓰기 위한 좋은 소프트웨어 라이브러리가 많이 있습니다.

DXF 형식에는 여러 버전이 있습니다. 1992년부터 출시된 R12나 조절곡선(spline)이 적용된 1997년부터 출시된 R14와 같은 특정 키 버전을 들어보게 될 겁니다. DXF의 이후 버전에는 3D 요소가 있지만, 이는 거의 사용되거나 구현되지 않습니다. DXF를 사용하여 프로그램 간에 CAD 데이터를 공유하는 방법은 주로 해당 리더/가져오기 도구와 작성기/내보내기 도구의 제한 사항과 버그에 따라 달라집니다. 이러한 문제는 거의 완벽하게 문서화되지 않으며 큰 좌절의 원인이 될 수 있습니다.

If you are editing DXF files and want them to remain almost the same when you save them, we recommend you use [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LibreCAD LibreCAD] or [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QCad QCad] because these programs' internal data structures are compatible with the objects in the DXF file.

In FreeCAD the DXF readers must translate the geometry (e.g., spline shapes) from the DXF file into the specific internal representations of the Workbench.

== Methods for importing DXF to FreeCAD ==

If you intend to review the settings frequently, we recommend you go to Edit → Preferences → Import-Export → DXF and tick the box "[ ] Show this dialog when importing and exporting".

More information is on the pages [[Draft_DXF|Draft DXF]] and [[FreeCAD_and_DXF_Import|FreeCAD and DXF Import]].

If you are using the imported geometry to build 3D shapes in the Part Design Workbench, try the [[Sketcher_ValidateSketch|Sketcher Validate]] after you have imported the DXF into a sketch.

=== C++ DXF importer ===

This implementation of fast, but skips features it doesn't recognize, such as DXF splines. It also can only import geometry into the Draft Workbench as individual entries in the Model tree. These can have the colors read from the file if you tick to enable this option. For further information, see [https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=32493 this forum post].

=== Python DXF importer ===

This importer has to be downloaded and installed before it can be used. Use the "[ ] Allow FreeCAD to automatically download and update the DXF libraries" option.

This importer has more features (such as implementing splines), and has the option of loading the DXF shapes into the Sketcher Workbench. However, be warned that all the elements of the sketch will appear individually a second time in the model tree, which can be confusing. You can delete all these individual objects and retain the single sketch (which appears as the second entry in the list of new elements).

Unfortunately, the Sketcher Workbench does not implement colors, so all the geometry will appear on the same level, which is a problem if the file contains many construction lines. One work-around is to open your drawing in LibreCAD, and delete all the geometry you don't want to appear before saving a file that contains exactly the geometry that you want to load.

=== Macros ===

Keep an eye out on the FreeCAD forum or in the [[Macros_recipes|Macros recipes]] for alternative implementations of DXF importing and cleaning up as they develop.

== Saving DXF ==

In addition to the options under the Edit → Preferences, the [[TechDraw_Workbench|TechDraw Workbench]] can also export drawing pages to DXF using the [[TechDraw_ExportPageDXF|TechDraw ExportPageDXF]] function.


{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:User Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Draft{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:TechDraw{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:File_Formats{{#translation:}}]]