<languages/>

{{Docnav
|[[Installing_on_Mac/ko|Mac에 설치하기]]
|[[Getting_started/ko|시작하기]]
}}

{{TOCright}}

<span id="Introduction"></span>
= 설명 = 

여러분의 운영체제 ([[Installing_on_Windows|윈도우]], [[Installing_on_Linux|리눅스]] 또는 [[Installing_on_Mac|맥킨토시]]) 에 프리캐드를 설치한 뒤에, 아래에 설명되어 있는 부속 기능들 중에 필요한 것이 있을 겁니다.

<span id="Help_files"></span>
=도움말 파일=

다음을 읽어 보세요 ☞ [[Installing_Helpfile|도움말 파일 설치]].

<span id="External_workbenches"></span>
== 외부 작업대 ==

FreeCAD와 함께 번들로 제공되는 기본 [[workbenches/ko|작업대]] 외에도 커뮤니티 구성원이 만든 유용한 [[External_workbenches/ko|외부 작업대]] 들이 많이 있습니다.

<span id="Third_party_software"></span>
=타사 소프트웨어=

FreeCAD는 기본적으로 여러 타사 소프트웨어 패키지를 지원합니다. 대부분의 경우 소프트웨어를 설치하기만 하면 FreeCAD가 다시 시작되면 자동으로 해당 소프트웨어를 찾아서 사용할 수 있습니다. 이 섹션에서는 이러한 소프트웨어 패키지 목록을 FreeCAD에서 사용되는 위치와 다운로드할 수 있는 위치에 대한 정보와 함께 제공하는 것을 목표로 합니다.

<span id="Support"></span>
==지원==

<span id="GitPython"></span>
===깃파이썬===

[https://github.com/gitpython-developers/GitPython GitPython] is a library to interact with Git repositories. The [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon Manager]] can use this library. GitPython is included in the FreeCAD installers for Windows and Mac.

===GraphViz===

[https://www.graphviz.org GraphViz] is an open source graph visualization software. It is used by the [[Std_DependencyGraph|Std DependencyGraph]] tool.

===OpenCAMLib===

[https://www.anderswallin.net/CAM OpenCAMLib] is an open source library of computer aided manufacturing (CAM) algorithms. It is used in the [[CAM_Workbench|CAM Workbench]]. See the [[OpenCamLib|OpenCamLib]] page for installation instructions.

===OpenSCAD===

[https://www.openscad.org OpenSCAD] is a solid 3D modeller. The [[OpenSCAD_Workbench|OpenSCAD Workbench]] depends on this software and the [[Mesh_Workbench|Mesh Workbench]] uses it for its Boolean tools. It is also required for the import of SCAD files with the [[Std_Import|Std Import]] tool.

<span id="File_formats"></span>
==파일 형식==

이 섹션의 모든 소프트웨어는 [[Std_Import/ko|표준 가져오기]] 또는 [[Std_Export/ko|표준 내보내기]] 도구에서 사용됩니다.

===CADExchanger===

[https://cadexchanger.com CADExchanger] is a commercial application for exchanging various CAD file formats. There is an [https://github.com/yorikvanhavre/CADExchanger external workbench] to use this application in FreeCAD.

===DXF Importer===

FreeCAD has a native importer and exporter for DXF files, programmed in C++. Currently they do not implement all features of the DXF format. For those features the legacy Python importer and exporter are still available. These require the [https://github.com/yorikvanhavre/Draft-dxf-importer Draft-dxf-importer] Python library. See the [[FreeCAD_and_DXF_Import|FreeCAD and DXF Import]] page for more information.

<span id="DWG_converters"></span>
===DWG 변환기===

FreeCAD cannot directly read and write DWG files. To convert DXF files to DWG files, and vice-versa, FreeCAD relies on external converters. There is built-in support for the following DWG converters:
* [https://www.gnu.org/software/libredwg LibreDWG] (open-source, lacks support for some DWG entities).
* [https://www.opendesign.com/guestfiles/oda_file_converter ODA File Converter] (free, but not open-source).
* [https://qcad.org/en/qcad-command-line-tools#dwg2dwg QCAD pro] (commercial). {{Version|0.20}}

See [[Import_Export_Preferences#DWG|Import Export Preferences]] and [[FreeCAD_and_DWG_Import|FreeCAD and DWG Import]] for more information.

===IfcOpenShell===

[https://ifcopenshell.org IfcOpenShell] is a library for working with the Industry Foundation Classes (IFC) file format used in architectural design. The library is also used by the [[Arch_IfcExplorer|Arch IfcExplorer]] ({{VersionMinus|0.18}}) and [[BIM_IfcExplorer|BIM IfcExplorer]] tools. IfcOpenShell is included in the FreeCAD installers for Windows and Mac.

===IfcJson===

[https://github.com/buildingSMART/ifcJSON IfcJson] is a library required for exporting to the IFCJSON file format. IFCJSON is a new IFC format that is not yet supported by many applications.

===Pycollada===

[https://github.com/pycollada/pycollada/releases Pycollada], also known as python-collada, is a Python library to read and write Collada (DAE) files. Pycollada is included in the FreeCAD installers for Windows and Mac.

==Rendering==

===LuxCoreRender===

[https://www.luxcorerender.org LuxCoreRender] is a render engine, reboot of the [[LuxRender|LuxRender]] project. Officially it is not supported by the [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench]], but it might be worth to give it a try. It is officially supported by the new [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render Render Workbench], intended as a future replacement of the Raytracing Workbench. See the [[LuxCoreRender|LuxCoreRender]] page for more information and installation instructions.

===LuxRender===

[https://luxcorerender.org/history/ LuxRender] is one of the two render engines supported by the [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench]]. In 2013 the project has been rebooted becoming [[LuxCoreRender]], with a major code rewriting and compatibility breaking changes. Officially the Raytracing Workbench only supports the abandoned [[LuxRender|LuxRender]] (latest version is 1.6, 2017-12-28), while the new [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-render Render Workbench] (intended as a future replacement of the Raytracing Workbench) supports instead LuxCoreRender and has dropped the support for LuxRender. Anyway, even if officially not supported, [[LuxCoreRender|LuxCoreRender]] may work with the Raytracing Workbench, it might be worth to give it a try. See the [[LuxRender|LuxRender]] page for more information and installation instructions, and the [[LuxCoreRender|LuxCoreRender]] if you want to try a more modern software.

===POV-Ray===

[https://www.povray.org POV-Ray] is a well-known ray-tracer which can render photo-realistic images. It is one of two render engines currently supported by the [[Raytracing_Workbench|Raytracing Workbench]]. See the [[POV-Ray|POV-Ray]] page for more information and installation instructions.

==Finite element==

===CalculiX===

[https://calculix.de CalculiX] is a suite of two finite element packages: CalculiX CrunchiX, a FEM solver, and 
CalculiX GraphiX, a GUI frontend. Only the solver is supported by FreeCAD. It is used by the [[FEM_SolverCalculixCcxtools|FEM SolverCalculixCcxtools]] tool.

===Gmsh===

[https://gmsh.info Gmsh] is an automatic finite element mesh generator. it is used by the [[FEM_MeshGmshFromShape|FEM MeshGmshFromShape]] and [[Mesh_FromPartShape|Mesh FromPartShape]] tools.

===Elmer===

[https://www.csc.fi/web/elmer Elmer] is a multi-physics simulation software, which was open sourced in 2005. In FreeCAD its Grid and Solver modules are used by the [[FEM_SolverElmer|FEM SolverElmer]] tool.

===FEniCS===

[https://fenicsproject.org FEniCS] is a computing platform to solve partial differential equations (PDEs), which are widely used when solving FEM problems. It is used by the [[FEM_Workbench|FEM workbench]]

===Z88===

[https://en.z88.de Z88] is another FEM program, containing a mesher, a solver and converters. It is used by the [[FEM_SolverZ88|FEM SolverZ88]] tool. FreeCAD requires the open source Z88OS package.

===OpenFOAM===

[https://openfoam.org OpenFOAM] is a large collection of libraries for computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations. OpenFOAM is used by the [[Cfd_Workbench|Cfd]] and [https://github.com/jaheyns/CfdOF CfdOF] [[External_workbenches|external workbenches]].

<span id="Related_pages"></span>
=관련 페이지=

* [[Import_Export|Import Export]]
* [[Import_Export_Preferences|Import Export Preferences]]
* [[Third Party Libraries|Third Party Libraries]]


{{Docnav
|[[Installing_on_Mac/ko|Mac에 설치하기]]
|[[Getting_started/ko|시작하기]]
}}

[[Category:User Documentation]]