<languages/>

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{Docnav| |[[Manual:What is FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]|IconC = Crystal Clear manual.png}}
</div>

{{Manual:TOC}}

[http://www.freecad.org FreeCAD]는 3차원 모형의 치수를 매개변수를 이용해 적용하여 모델링 하는 프로그램이며 소스코드는 개방 되어 있습니다. 실제의 물건, 소형의 전자부품에서 대형인 건물과 토목 구조물 등에 이르기 까지, 3D 형상 제작을 위한 것이며, 3D 프린팅에 사용되는 것에 중점을 두고 만들었습니다. FreeCAD 는 사용하기, 내려받기, 개량해서 배포하기 등 여러가지에 관해 여러분의 자유를 허용하고 있고, 소스코드도  [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Lesser_General_Public_License LGPL]의 권리조항에서 개방된 것에 따라 공개되고 게시 되었습니다. 이는 FreeCAD가 3D 프린팅 분야의 취미 사용자처럼 비교적 경험이 적은 사용자뿐만 아니라, 다른 파라메트릭 도구를 실험해 보려는 숙련된 사용자에게도 매력적인 선택지가 되게 합니다.

이 소프트웨어는 2002년에 초기 버전이 출시되었습니다. 그 이후로 헌신적인 개발자와 사용자 커뮤니티의 지속적인 기여 덕분에 FreeCAD는 느리지만 꾸준하게 성장해 왔습니다. 수많은 기여자들의 열정적인 노력은 FreeCAD의 CAD 도구로서의 기능을 향상시켰을 뿐만 아니라, FreeCAD 기본 스위트와 밀접하게 연관된 별도의 분야에서 추가 기능들이 개발되는 결과로 이어졌습니다. 대표적인 예로는 간단한 유한 요소 해석(FEA)을 수행할 수 있는 FEM 워크벤치와, 건축 정보 모델링(BIM) 기능을 제공하는 BIM 워크벤치 등이 있습니다.

This user manual is being written and updated for version [[Release_notes_1.0|1.0]] of FreeCAD. Its purpose is to serve as a guide for individuals who wish to start using FreeCAD for their projects. No extensive prior knowledge of any CAD software is required, and the contents of this manual are organized in a straightforward and comprehensive manner, divided into various application areas. The guide includes instructions regarding the installation of FreeCAD, the use of its most prominent workbenches, and extends to more complex topics such as Python scripting. Efforts have been made to present the information in an organized, step-by-step fashion, complete with images. This structure ensures that both novice CAD users and more experienced individuals can benefit from studying this manual. The contents of this manual are published under the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ Creative Commons 4.0] license, and can be freely used, downloaded, copied, and modified. The FreeCAD Manual is continuously improved through user experiences and contributions. A [https://wiki.freecad.org/FreeCAD_manual_converter Python script] is available to convert the latest version of this manual into PDF or EPUB formats for offline reading. 

<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
이 매뉴얼은 FreeCAD의 최신 안정 버전 '''0.18'''(2019년 초반)용으로 썼습니다.
</div>



<div class="mw-translate-fuzzy">
{{Docnav| |[[Manual:What is FreeCAD|Manual:What is FreeCAD]]|[[Manual:Introduction|Manual start]]|IconC = Crystal Clear manual.png}}
</div>