<languages/>
{{TOCright}}

<span id="Description"></span>
==설명==

[https://www.python.org Python]은 스크립트나 [[macro/ko|매크로]]를 생성하여 일부 작업을 자동화하는 대규모 애플리케이션에서 매우 일반적으로 사용되는 범용 고급 프로그래밍 언어입니다.

FreeCAD에서는 파이썬 코드를 사용하면 그래픽 사용자 인터페이스를 클릭하지 않고도 다양한 요소를 프로그래밍 방식으로 만들 수 있습니다. 게다가, FreeCAD의 많은 도구와 작업대는 파이썬으로 프로그래밍되어 있습니다.

파이썬 프로그래밍 언어에 대해 알아보려면 [[Introduction to Python/ko|파이썬 소개]]를 참조하세요.그런 다음 [[Python scripting tutorial/ko|파이썬 스크립팅 자습서]]와 [[FreeCAD Scripting Basics/ko|FreeCAD 스크립팅 기초]]를 참조하여 FreeCAD에서 스크립팅을 시작하세요.

<span id="Readability"></span>
== 가독성 ==

파이썬 코드의 가독성은 이 언어의 가장 중요한 측면 중 하나입니다. 파이썬 커뮤니티에서 명확하고 일관된 스타일을 사용하면 다양한 개발자의 기여가 용이해집니다. 대부분의 숙련된 파이썬 프로그래머는 코드가 특정 방식으로 포맷되고 특정 규칙을 따르기를 기대하기 때문입니다. 파이썬 코드를 작성할 때는 [https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/ PEP8: 파이썬 코드 스타일 가이드]와 [https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/ PEP257: 문서문자열 규칙]을 따르는 것이 좋습니다.

다음 문서에서는 더욱 사용자 친화적인 방식으로 설명을 제공합니다.
* [https://realpython.com/python-pep8/ PEP 8을 사용하여 아름다운 파이썬 코드를 작성하는 방법]
* [https://realpython.com/documenting-python-code/ 파이썬 코드 문서화: 완벽 가이드].

== Conventions ==
In this documentation, some conventions for Python examples should be followed.

This is a typical function signature

{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=False, placement=None, face=None, support=None)
}}

* Arguments with key-value pairs are optional, with the default value indicated in the signature. This means that the following calls are equivalent:

{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False, None, None, None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False, None, None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False, None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, False)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist)
}}

: In this example the first argument doesn't have a default value so it should always be included.

* When the arguments are given with the explicit key, the optional arguments can be given in any order. This means that the following calls are equivalent:
{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=False, placement=None, face=None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=False, face=None, placement=None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, placement=None, closed=False, face=None)
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, support=None, closed=False, placement=None, face=None)
}}

* Python's guidelines stress readability of code; in particular, parentheses should immediately follow the function name, and a space should follow a comma.

{{Code|code=
p1 = Vector(0, 0, 0)
p2 = Vector(1, 1, 0)
p3 = Vector(2, 0, 0)
Wire = make_wire([p1, p2, p3], closed=True)
}}

* If code needs to be broken over several lines, this should be done at a comma inside brackets or parentheses; the second line should be aligned with the previous one.

{{Code|code=
a_list = [1, 2, 3,
          2, 4, 5]

Wire = make_wire(pointslist,
                False, None,
                None, None)
}}

* Functions may return an object that can be used as the base of another drawing function.
{{Code|code=
Wire = make_wire(pointslist, closed=True, face=True)
Window = make_window(Wire, name="Big window")
}}

== Imports ==

Python functions are stored in files called modules. Before using any function in that module, the module must be included in the document with the {{incode|import}} instruction.

This creates prefixed functions, that is, {{incode|module.function()}}. This system prevents name clashes with functions that are named the same but that come from different modules.
For example, the two functions {{incode|Arch.make_window()}} and {{incode|myModule.make_window()}} may coexist without problem.

Full examples should include the necessary imports and the prefixed functions.

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD as App
import Draft

p1 = App.Vector(0, 0, 0)
p2 = App.Vector(1, 1, 0)
p3 = App.Vector(2, 0, 0)
Wire = Draft.make_wire([p1, p2, p3], closed=True)
}}

{{Code|code=
import FreeCAD as App
import Draft
import Arch

p1 = App.Vector(0, 0, 0)
p2 = App.Vector(1, 0, 0)
p3 = App.Vector(1, 1, 0)
p4 = App.Vector(0, 2, 0)
pointslist = [p1, p2, p3, p4]

Wire = Draft.make_wire(pointslist, closed=True, face=True)
Structure = Arch.make_structure(Wire, name="Big pillar")
}}

{{Powerdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Developer Documentation{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:API{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Python Code{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Glossary{{#translation:}}]]