<languages/>

<span id="Description"></span>
==Description==

Le module Aide est responsable du traitement de toutes les demandes de documentation et de son affichage. Jusqu'à la version 0.21 de FreeCAD, le module Aide est disponible sous la forme d'une [[Std_AddonMgr/fr|extension]], après quoi il a été inclus dans FreeCAD. Il n'y a aucun problème à laisser l'extension installée après la version 0.21.

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Help module provides a preferences page under menu {{MenuCommand|Help → Preferences → General → Help}}, which allows to specify:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The source of the documentation: The documentation can be fetched from online locations such as the [https://wiki.freecad.org official FreeCAD wiki] (default) or the [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-documentation markdown conversion], or from an offline location, such as a folder where the documentation can be downloaded with the [[Std_AddonMgr|Addon manager]].
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* The way the documentation must be displayed: in your desktop browser, in a separate, dockable dialog, that allows you for ex. to keep the documentation displayed while you are working (this is useful for tutorials), or a new FreeCAD tab. Note that in version 1.0 the 2nd and 3rd option require PySide Web components. If these are missing the 1st option will be used instead.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* An alternative css file: This is used only when using the markdown or offline sources above, and allows you to customize the styling of the documentation.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Scripting ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Help module basically consists of a [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/blob/main/src/Mod/Help/Help.py single python module]. Its main usage is using the {{Incode|show}} function. It can retrieve an URL, a local file (markdown or html), or find a page automatically from the settings set under {{MenuCommand|Preferences → General → Help}}.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
It doesn't matter what you provide, the system will recognize if the contents are HTML or Markdown and render it appropriately.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Basic usage:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Code|code=
import Help
Help.show("Draft Line")
Help.show("Draft_Line")  # works with spaces or underscores
Help.show("https://wiki.freecadweb.org/Draft_Line")
Help.show("https://gitlab.com/freecad/FreeCAD-documentation/-/raw/main/wiki/Draft_Line.md")
Help.show("/home/myUser/.FreeCAD/Documentation/Draft_Line.md")
Help.show("http://myserver.com/myfolder/Draft_Line.html")
}}
</div>


{{Userdocnavi{{#translation:}}}}
[[Category:Addons{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:External Workbenches{{#translation:}}]]